Program Eligibility Requirements- {We accredit postsecondary, degree-granting programs offered by regionally accredited institutions in the United States and nationally accredited institutions outside the United States. We do not accredit certification, training, or doctoral programs.

Meet ABET’S Definition of a Program
We accredit programs only—not degrees, departments, colleges, institutions, or individuals. We define a program as an integrated, organized experience that culminates in the awarding of a degree. The program will have program educational objectives, student outcomes, a curriculum, faculty, and facilities, as described in the accreditation criteria. We do not accredit certification, training, or doctoral programs.

Be Housed in a Degree-Granting Institution
We accept Requests for Evaluation (RFE) from post-secondary programs offered by degree-granting institutions with verifiable and recognized governmental, national, or regional authority to confer degrees. In some cases, an institution that does not meet this requirement may request an evaluation for a program if that program’s accreditation furthers ABET’s Mission.

Have at Least One Graduate
Programs requesting an initial accreditation review must have at least one graduate prior to the academic year when the on-site review occurs.

Name Must Meet ABET Requirements
The name of a program seeking accreditation must be descriptive of the program’s content and be stated exactly the same way on the graduate’s transcript and in the institution’s literature.

Programs outside the U.S. where English is not the native language, must provide the program’s name both in English and in the native language(s). An institution may not use the same program name to identify both an ABET-accredited program and a program that is not ABET-accredited.

Be Accreditable Under at Least One ABET Accreditation Commission
Each program seeking accreditation will be assigned to a specific commission or commissions based upon the literal name of the program:

Applied and Natural Science Accreditation Commission (ANSAC)
Programs accredited by ANSAC are those leading to professional practice utilizing science, mathematics, and engineering concepts as a foundation for discipline-specific practice. ANSAC accredits programs at the following degree levels: associate, bachelor, and master.

Computing Accreditation Commission (CAC)
Programs accredited by CAC are those leading to professional practice across the broad spectrum of computing, computational, information, and informatics disciplines. CAC accredits programs at the following degree level: bachelor.

Engineering Accreditation Commission (EAC)
Programs accredited by EAC are those leading to the professional practice of engineering. All engineering programs requesting ABET review must include the word “engineering” in the program name. EAC accredits programs at the following degree levels: bachelor and master.

Engineering Technology Accreditation Commission (ETAC)
Programs accredited by ETAC prepare baccalaureate degree graduates for careers in sectors such as construction, manufacturing, product design, testing, or technical services and sales. Graduates of two-year engineering technology programs likely assume engineering technician positions in maintenance, production, or product development. The name of every ETAC-accredited program that includes the word “engineering” in the name of the program must also include the word “technology” directly after the word “engineering.” ETAC accredits programs at the following degree levels: associate and bachelor.

Some Programs Must Undergo a Readiness Review
We require a preliminary Self-Study Report from all programs seeking initial accreditation, if the institution has no currently ABET-accredited programs in that same commission. After a review of this preliminary Self-Study Report, which is called the Readiness Review, we will determine whether or not an institution is ready to submit a formal Request for Evaluation (RFE) for that program.
}
Assessment Planning-
{The true benefits of accreditation lie in the ongoing process of assessment that lays the foundation for programmatic success. The program assessment planning process is related to the following ABET Accreditation Criteria:

ABET Criterion 2: Program Educational Objectives
ABET Criterion 3: Student Outcomes
ABET Criterion 4: Continuous Improvement
Establish Purpose (Mission Statement) & Set Goals (Timeline)
Assessment planning begins with the institutional mission statement, which describes the communities that are served and the institutional purposes and other characteristics that define your institution. At the same time, your institution’s assessment leader should work with an appropriate mix of faculty and administrators to develop a plan of action and timeline to ensure departmental assessment goals and deadlines are met.

Define/Refine Program Educational Objectives & Student Outcomes
Program educational objectives are based on the needs of the program’s constituencies and are expressed in broad statements that describe what graduates are expected to attain within a few years of graduation.

Student outcomes relate to the knowledge, skills and behaviors that students acquire as they progress through the program and describe what students are expected to know and be able to do by the time of graduation. Defining educational objectives and student outcomes provides faculty with a common understanding of the expectations for student learning and supports consistency across the curriculum, as measured by performance indicators.

Performance indicators represent the knowledge, skills, attitudes or behavior students should be able to demonstrate by the time of graduation that indicate competence related to the outcome.

Design & Conduct Assessments
Assessments offer a framework through which you can identify, collect and prepare data to evaluate the attainment of student outcomes and program educational objectives. Effective assessments use relevant direct, indirect, quantitative, and qualitative measures appropriate to the outcome or objective being measured. Appropriate sampling methods may be used as part of an assessment process.

Efficient and effective assessment strategies require an understanding of the alignment between educational practices and strategies. This can be accomplished by mapping educational strategies (which could include co-curricular activities) to learning outcomes. Strategies for data collection and analysis need to be systematic and consistent, and focus on assessment related to the performance indicators.

Evaluate Assessment Findings
Evaluation processes interpret the data and evidence accumulated through the assessment process and determine the extent to which student outcomes and program educational objectives are being attained. Thoughtful evaluation of findings is essential to ensure that decisions and actions taken as a result of the assessment process will lead to program improvement.

Use Results for Decision Making
Assessment provides a framework for a meaningful feedback process, which is critical to strategic decision-making. Creating and maintaining an ongoing quality assurance system helps to keep your program relevant to the professions it serves, supports the highest quality student experience, and confirms that your graduates are well prepared for their careers.}
Self-Study Report-{
The Self-Study Report is the primary document your program uses to demonstrate its compliance with all applicable ABET criteria and policies. The Self-Study is the foundation for the review team’s judgment of whether the program meets our criteria for accreditation. It addresses all paths to completion of the degree, all methods of instructional delivery used for the program, and all remote location offerings.

The process of preparing a Self-Study Report takes approximately a year and is expected to encompass both a quantitative and qualitative assessment of the strengths and limitations of the program. We recommend that programs become familiar with the information requested in the Self-Study Questionnaire well before submitting a Request for Evaluation (RFE).

The program must provide one copy of the completed Self-Study Report to ABET Headquarters by July 1 following an RFE submission. The program will then be asked to provide copies to each member of its accreditation review team.

Self-Study Report vs Interim Report
A program prepares a Self-Study Report for an initial review and again every six years for the required general, comprehensive review.

If a program is required to have an Interim Review, a Self-Study Report is not required. Instead, the program prepares an that focuses on addressing the shortcomings identified during the previous review. An Interim Report is also due July 1 following an RFE submission.}
Readiness Review-
{What is the Readiness Review?
The Readiness Review ensures that your program is prepared for the accreditation review process before investing the time and resources for the on-site visit.

If your program is seeking initial accreditation and is housed in an institution with no currently ABET-accredited programs in your commission, you will be required to undergo a Readiness Review prior to submitting a formal Request for Evaluation (RFE)

If you are not sure whether you need to do a Readiness Review, contact ReadinessReview@abet.org.

Required Documents
The following information is effective for the 2024-25 Readiness Review submission that is due October 1, 2023.  Information specific to the 2025-26 Readiness Review Cycle will be posted by the end of March 2024.

Request a Readiness Review (RREv) – Inform ABET of your intent by completing the online RREv preferably before September 1, well before the October 1 deadline for submitting the required Readiness Review Report and transcript.  (Preferred browser for the RREv link: Google Chrome. Alternatives include Mozilla FireFox, Safari, and Microsoft Edge.)
Readiness Review Report – Submit one Readiness Review Report along with one transcript per program by October 1 of the year before you plan to submit a Request for Evaluation (RFE).
Transcript – Include a scanned copy of one graduate’s official transcript from the most recent graduating class with the Readiness Review Report by October 1.  Refer to the below applicable Readiness Review Template Section I.G. for the detailed transcript requirements.  All materials must be submitted electronically via the ABET provided access (which will be provided when the submitted RREv is accepted).  No submission after the October 1 deadline nor an email submission will be accepted.
To allow ample time for completing the Readiness Review Report and transcript submission via the ABET provided access by the October 1 deadline, early completion of the online RREv form is strongly recommended.

Preparing the Readiness Review report
Use the applicable Readiness Review Template for your accreditation commission to prepare a Readiness Review Report.

The following templates and documents are specific to the 2024-25 Readiness Review Cycle.  (Updates specific to the 2025-26 Readiness Review Cycle will be posted by the end of March 2024.)

ANSAC

CAC

CAC-EAC Joint Review Program

EAC

EAC Master’s Level – Integrated Baccalaureate-Master’s Program

EAC Master’s Level – Stand Alone Program

ETAC

Please refer to the Information for Programs Requesting Readiness Review for:

A Readiness Review timeline
Guidance on preparing a Readiness Review Report
Information on Readiness Review outcomes
Post-Readiness Review options for institutions/programs
Outcomes
Your program may receive one of three non-binding recommendations as the outcome of a Readiness Review:

A recommendation to submit the Request for Evaluation (RFE) in the immediate upcoming accreditation review cycle.
 A recommendation to postpone the RFE submission unless substantive changes in the Self-Study preparation and documentation are made.
A recommendation not to submit the RFE in the immediate upcoming accreditation review cycle because it is likely to be rejected.
If your program completes a Readiness Review and continues in the review process, please note that you must use the applicable Self-Study Template with paying attention to the applicable Criteria for the Review Cycle you would like to initiate to prepare a final Self-Study Report that is due July 1.

Readiness Review fees
The fee for a Readiness Review is US $1,100 per program for a given commission.

Learn More
Section I.C.5.b. of the most up-to-date Accreditation Policy and Procedure Manual (APPM) offers detailed instructions and policies related to the Readiness Review.  If there is interest in learning about the internal guidelines given to Readiness Reviewers on how to conduct a Readiness Review, see this Readiness Review Guidelines document.}
