2020 GUIDING PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS FOR AACSB BUSINESS ACCREDITATION TABLE OF CONTENTS PREAMBLE	7 Introduction to AACSB Accreditation	7 Philosophy of AACSB Accreditation	9 Engagement, Innovation, and Impact	10 The Role of Peer Review Judgment	10 The Accredited Entity	11 Programmatic Scope	12 Collaborative Provisions/Transfer Credit	13 Accreditation Eligibility Criteria	15 Guiding Principles and Expectations for Accredited Schools	17 Ethics and Integrity	17 Societal Impact…	17 Mission-Driven Focus	17 Peer Review	18 Continuous Improvement	18 Collegiality	18 Agility	18 Global Mindset	18 Diversity and Inclusion	18 Continued Adherence to Guiding Principles and Business Standards	19 Structure of Standards	20 Standards	20 Definitions	20 Basis for Judgment	20 Suggested Documentation	20 STANDARDS FOR BUSINESS ACCREDITATION	21 Introduction to Standards	21 Strategic Management and Innovation	23 Standard 1:  Strategic Planning	23 Standard 2:  Physical, Virtual, and Financial Resources	27 Standard 3: Faculty and Professional Staff Resources	30 Learner Success	41 Standard 4: Curriculum	41 Standard 5: Assurance of Learning	45 Standard 6: Learner Progression	50 Standard 7: Teaching Effectiveness and Impact	53 Thought Leadership, Engagement, and Societal Impact	56 Standard 8: Impact of Scholarship	56 Standard 9: Engagement and Societal Impact	62 PREAMBLE Introduction to AACSB Accreditation AACSB International (AACSB) is a nonprofit global membership association for the business education industry. Our member network, known as the AACSB Business Education Alliance, is a network of business educators, businesses, and nonprofit and public-sector organizations dedicated to sharing knowledge and best practices that accelerate innovation in business education. We unite the best minds in business education—and the best minds in business—to work as one to achieve a common goal: to create the next generation of great leaders. AACSB’s mission is to foster engagement, accelerate innovation, and amplify impact in business education. The mission informs AACSB accreditation standards for business schools. AACSB strives to continuously improve engagement among business, faculty, institutions, and learners, so that business education is aligned with business practice. To fulfill this goal, AACSB will encourage and accelerate innovation to continuously improve business education. As a result, business education will have a positive impact on business and society, and AACSB will amplify that impact. In achieving its mission and vision, AACSB emphasizes and models the values of quality, diversity and inclusion, a global mindset, ethics, social responsibility, and community. The vision of AACSB, which is reinforced through AACSB’s Collective Vision for Business Education, is to transform business education globally for positive societal impact. Business and business schools are a force for good, contributing to the world’s economy and to society, and AACSB plays a significant role in making that benefit better known to all stakeholders by serving business schools, learners, business, and society. Our standards contain an imperative that AACSB-accredited business schools demonstrate a positive impact on society in furtherance of this vision. 1 Accordingly, societal impact is woven through all sections of the standards. AACSB was founded in 1916 and established its first standards for degree programs in business administration in 1919. AACSB adopted additional standards for undergraduate and graduate degree programs in accountancy in 1980 to address the special needs of the accounting profession. Accounting accreditation is optional and considered “supplemental” to the school’s business accreditation. Schools holding supplemental accounting accreditation must meet all of the business accreditation standards, plus the accounting standards, which are maintained separately from this document. 1 A Collective Vision for Business Education can be accessed at www.aacsb.edu/vision. AACSB accreditation processes are ISO 9001:2015 certified globally and support and uphold the Code of Good Practice for Accrediting Bodies of the Association of Specialized and Professional Accreditors (ASPA).2 Additionally, AACSB is committed to upholding the guidelines of the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The association regularly reviews its accreditation standards and processes for opportunities to improve relevancy, maintain currency, and increase value. This edition of the standards was adopted by the AACSB Accreditation Council in July 2020. The accreditation standards are updated periodically through a vote of the AACSB Accreditation Council, while the AACSB Interpretive Guidance (which exists separately from the standards) is updated annually by the Business Accreditation Policy Committee (BAPC). Note that, with respect to the updating of these two documents, the official AACSB accreditation standards (shown in bold type beginning within the section entitled “Standards for Business Accreditation”) are the responsibility of the Accreditation Council; however, all other components residing within the standards document (e.g., Guiding Principles, Definitions, Basis for Judgment, Suggested Documentation, etc.), as well as the entire separate Interpretive Guidance document, may be updated as needed, subject to the approval of the Business Accreditation Policy Committee (BAPC), which represents the membership interest. This publication is available online at aacsb.edu. Permission to replicate any portion of either the standards or the interpretive guidance documents must be obtained in writing from AACSB’s chief accreditation officer. 2 See www.aspa-usa.org Philosophy of AACSB Accreditation The business environment is undergoing profound changes, spurred by powerful demographic shifts, global economic and societal forces, and emerging technologies. At the same time, society is increasingly demanding that companies become more accountable for their actions, exhibit a greater sense of social responsibility, and embrace more sustainable practices. These trends send a strong signal that what business needs today is much different from what it needed yesterday or will need tomorrow. Not surprisingly, the same factors impacting business are also changing higher education. In today’s increasingly dynamic environment, business schools must respond to the business world’s changing needs by providing relevant knowledge and skills to the communities they serve. They must innovate and invest in intellectual capital; they must develop new programs, curricula, and courses; and they must continually update programs to ensure currency and relevancy of the curriculum. Moreover, declining public support for higher education has placed business schools under additional economic pressure, which has widespread implications on all components of the business school, from the range of academic offerings and co-curricular programs, to the number and type of faculty and professional staff available to support business school operations, to class size, new modalities and partnerships, In this context of constant change, standards and processes for accreditation must be designed not only to validate quality business education and impactful research but also to provide leadership, encouragement, and support for change in business schools. The standards should also provide a platform for business schools to work together to foster engagement, accelerate innovation, and amplify impact in business education—and create a shared sense of responsibility to impact society positively. The fundamental purpose of AACSB accreditation is to encourage business schools to hold themselves accountable for improving business practice through a commitment to strategic management, learner success, and impactful thought leadership. AACSB achieves this purpose by defining a set of criteria and standards, coordinating peer review and consultation, and recognizing high-quality business schools that meet the standards and actively engage in the process. AACSB remains deeply committed to diversity and inclusion in collegiate business education. These values of diversity and inclusion foster the exploration of differences in a safe and supportive environment, where community members move beyond tolerance of differences to seeking and celebrating the rich dimensions of diversity and the contributions these differences make to innovative, engaged, and impactful business experiences. When business schools unlock access, reduce barriers, and intentionally create strategies to engage disadvantaged or underrepresented populations, they create an environment of success and enhance excellence. AACSB recognizes that schools can be constrained by a variety of external factors, such as regulatory systems, collective bargaining agreements, formal labor regulations, and other environmental factors. It is within the spirit of the standards that these external factors are taken into consideration by the peer review team. One of the guiding principles of AACSB accreditation is the encouragement of diverse paths to achieving high-quality outcomes in business education. Accreditation decisions are made through a process that relies on the professional judgment of peers who conduct reviews that are guided by the business school mission. It is also critically important that AACSB accreditation demands evidence of continuous quality improvement in three vital areas: engagement, innovation, and impact. Engagement, Innovation, and Impact AACSB acknowledges and values the diversity among its membership, but it also recognizes that all of its accredited members share a common purpose—preparing learners for meaningful professional, societal, and personal lives. Effective business education and research can be achieved with different balances of academic and professional engagement; however, quality business education cannot be achieved when either academic or professional engagement is absent, or when they do not intersect in meaningful ways. Accreditation should encourage an appropriate intersection of academic and professional engagement that is consistent with quality in the context of a school's mission. Accreditation standards focus on the quality of education and supporting functions. The standards must set demanding but realistic thresholds, challenge business schools to innovate, and inspire educators to pursue continuous improvement in educational programs and other mission-based activities of the business school. Accreditation standards and associated processes should foster quality and consistency, but not at the expense of the creativity and experimentation necessary for innovation or entrepreneurial pursuits; the standards must recognize that innovation involves both the potential for success and the risk of failure. Therefore, when assessing any success or failure, it is key for schools to recognize the importance of experimentation and place a priority on strategic innovation. If innovations are well developed, rational, and thoughtfully planned, negative outcomes should not inhibit a positive accreditation review. Negative outcomes are of concern only when they seriously and negatively affect the ability of the business school to continue to fulfill its mission. In an environment of increasing accountability, it is important that AACSB accreditation focus on appropriate high-quality inputs (human, physical, virtual, and financial), processes, and outputs that shape outcomes within the context of the business school’s mission and supporting strategies. That is, in the accreditation process, business schools must document how they are making a difference and having impact. This means that AACSB will continue to emphasize that business schools integrate assurance of learning into their curriculum management processes and produce thought leadership that makes a positive impact on business theory, teaching, or practice. Impact also has a broader meaning in that the business school, through the articulation and execution of its mission, should make a difference in business and society as well as in the global community of business schools. The Role of Peer Review Judgment One of the values of AACSB accreditation arises from the experience, professionalism, professional judgment, and discretion of the peer review team members. Peer review teams are tasked with two goals for a peer review visit: (1) confirm alignment with the standards, and (2) provide advice with respect to the continuous improvement charge of an AACSB-accredited school. Peer review teams must exercise judgment when schools do not align with one or more standards. Peer review evaluations are based on the quality of the learning experience and outcomes, not rigid interpretations of standards. In places where a school does not align with the spirit of a standard, the school should justify the variance and provide evidence of high-quality learning experiences and outcomes despite misalignment with the standard. Because AACSB is a global organization with accredited institutions throughout the world, AACSB recognizes that the accreditation standards must be viewed through an appropriate varying cultural lens. Accordingly, the association understands that schools may apply adaptive strategies to account for cultural or regional differences in the world. Such adaptive strategies should be discussed with the peer review team to arrive at a mutual understanding. Here, too, review teams must exercise good judgment and provide appropriate advice that adds value to the school’s strategies, processes, and outcomes. The Accredited Entity AACSB accreditation is granted to the agreed-upon entity—either the institution or a single business unit within a larger parent university (or other academic institution), with institutional accreditation being the default accredited entity. In all cases, the AACSB brand will only be applied to the agreed-upon entity. Institutional Accreditation Under institutional accreditation, all business degrees within the institution, regardless of whether they are housed within the business school or elsewhere in the university, are to be included in the scope of the AACSB accreditation review, unless otherwise excluded (see “Programmatic Scope” below). Single Business Unit Accreditation An alternative to institutional accreditation is the accreditation of a single business academic unit (referred to as “unit of accreditation”). Typically, such units are part of a larger parent university (or other academic institution) from which they derive degree-granting authority. Redefining the accreditation entity from institution to a single unit is subject to the receipt of documentation that verifies that the unit has a sufficient level of independence in two areas: branding, and external market perception, as it relates to the single unit and the parent institution. The decision as to whether the school has made a successful case for a single unit of accreditation lies with AACSB. •	Branding. The unit seeking to be recognized independently of the larger parent organization must demonstrate and document that it is branded separately to the level that external stakeholders clearly distinguish between degrees offered within the unit and those within other academic units in the university. To demonstrate such independence of brand, the unit should demonstrate that its outreach activities and products clearly distinguish it from the other academic units offering business degrees. Evidence may include (1) public relations related to market positioning; (2) promotional materials such as websites, electronic and print advertising, and recruiting materials and activities that clearly distinguish it from the parent organization; (3) business school name, faculty, and degree titles that clearly distinguish the unit from the other academic units offering business degrees; and (4) other brand differentiation between the unit seeking independent accreditation and other academic units offering business degrees within the parent organization. •	External Market Perception. The unit to be accredited must demonstrate that there is no brand or market confusion between degrees offered by the unit and those offered by other units offering business degrees under the parent organization. This criterion is focused on the extent to which the external markets (learners, employers, other stakeholder groups, and the public) perceive that the business academic unit is differentiated from other academic units within the parent organization. This differentiation may include elements such as learner markets served, admissions requirements that are different between the unit and parent organization, the level of degrees offered, placement histories, starting salaries, and employer and community perceptions. A request for unit of accreditation is made prior to the submission of the school’s eligibility application for schools in the initial accreditation process. For accredited schools, an application for unit of accreditation may be submitted at any time. The request is reviewed by AACSB staff and peers of the appropriate accreditation committee, and a decision is made by that committee and communicated to the school. If the unit of accreditation application is approved, only the degrees within that unit are considered accredited by AACSB, subject to programs that may be excluded as discussed in the following section. The school must clearly distinguish for the public where a unit of accreditation exists to ensure the market is fully aware of which degrees have been quality assured by AACSB accreditation. If the unit of accreditation is not approved, the school may still pursue institutional accreditation if the eligibility application is approved. Programmatic Scope Once the accredited entity is determined, the next step is to gain agreement on which programs within the accredited entity will be included in the scope of accreditation. This is referred to as “programmatic scope.” Programmatic scope will normally include all business degree programs at the bachelor’s level or higher within the accredited entity. Schools may request exclusion of certain degree programs, subject to approval by the appropriate AACSB committee. •	Included Programs. Included programs are degree programs in which 25 percent or more of the content for baccalaureate degree programs, or 50 percent or more of the content for post-baccalaureate degree programs, relates to business disciplines such as accounting, economics, finance, legal studies, management, management information systems, marketing, and quantitative methods. 3 •	Excluded Programs. Excluded programs are programs with business discipline content below the thresholds noted above, or for which a specific exclusion request has been granted by AACSB. 3 The percentage of business content is calculated by dividing the maximum total number of business credits that can be taken in a degree (including electives) by the total number of credits required to earn the degree. For example, a 120-hour bachelor’s degree with 30 or more hours of business credits would normally be included in scope unless an exclusion request is granted by the appropriate AACSB committee. For all AACSB-accredited entities, it is the school’s responsibility to annually review and update the list of degree programs included in the scope of accreditation review as part of AACSB’s Business School Questionnaire so that the list of approved program exclusions can be maintained on a continual basis by AACSB. Once a degree program has been granted a formal exclusion by AACSB, the program remains excluded for future peer review visits unless the program undergoes substantial curricular changes that could bring the program into scope. New business degree programs introduced by the approved entity may be indicated as AACSB accredited until the next continuous improvement review, at which time the peer review team will review the new program for alignment with the standards. New business degree programs introduced by other academic units that were not originally within scope may not be indicated as accredited prior to the next review. Degree programs in teach-out stage at the time of accreditation visit are normally included in the scope of review, though the peer review team recognizes that the program is in teach-out mode.4 The review is concerned with whether the program still has sufficient and qualified faculty and other elements in place to ensure the remaining program is delivered in a high-quality manner. Collaborative Provisions/Transfer Credit Schools may engage in collaborative provisions with other institutions. A collaborative provision refers to a partnership agreement between two or more institutions. Apart from collaborative provision programs described below, Standard 6 specifies that normally the majority of learning in business disciplines that count toward degree fulfillment (as determined by credits, contact hours, or other metrics) is earned through the institution awarding the degree. In this context, business disciplines do not include general education or liberal arts courses, but do include courses in the major, business electives, and required business courses. Practically speaking, this means that absent a collaborative provision, transfer credit related to business disciplines is normally limited to no more than half of the program requirements. 5 An exception to the transfer limits may exist when collaborative provisions exist. There is a wide array of collaborative provisions, each with varying implications on a school’s AACSB accreditation. Below are the most common types of collaborative provisions, whether they are normally included or excluded from the AACSB accreditation scope, and, if included, the implications on a school’s accreditation.6 This list may evolve over time. The table below is presented from the perspective of the AACSB-accredited school awarding the degree, denoted as “School A.” “School B” denotes a partner school that may or may not be AACSB accredited, as AACSB allows partnerships between accredited and non-accredited schools. The reader of these standards could be either School A or School B, depending on context. 4 “Teach-out” programs are programs that a school has formally decided to discontinue in the near future, but existing learners are allowed to complete their programs. 5 The maximum credit in business disciplines that can be transferred in is calculated by dividing the maximum total number of business credits earned at the institution awarding the degree (including electives) by the total number of credits in the major. For example, in a 120-hour bachelor’s degree with 60 or more hours of business credits required to complete the degree program, a maximum of 30 hours of credits in business disciplines could be transferred in. Schools can always choose to set more restrictive limits. 6 The collaborative provision types were adapted from the EQUAL Guidelines on Collaborative Provision. Collaborative Provision Type Definition	7, Included in Scope of School A6F or Excluded from Scope of School A 8 7F Joint Degree	A collaborative program where a learner who completes the program receives a single degree from both (all) schools, such as an MBA from School A and School B where the names of both schools appear on the credential or qualification.	All business coursework taken at School B is included in the scope of School A. Consortium Degree	A collaborative program where learners earn one degree from a coalition of two or more schools with the intent of sharing resources, improving finances, and educating students. Usually, consortia are between schools in the same general geographic location, but some result from the melding of virtual campuses.	Business coursework taken within the schools that make up the consortium is included in the scope of School A. Dual/Double Degrees	A collaborative program where a learner who completes the program receives separate distinct degrees from the collaborative schools. 9 8F	Business coursework taken at School B is excluded from the scope of School A. Articulation, Twinning, Top-Up, or Progression Agreement	A collaborative provision where an institution accepts learners having completed courses in another institution into its own degree program. They are typically considered transfer students, with the latter being the awarding institution and are subject to the transfer provisions of School A. Business coursework taken at School B is excluded from scope of School A. Validation	Validation most often operates similarly to an accreditation (endorsement/authentication) of School B's program(s) delivered in the name of School A.	Business coursework taken at School B is excluded from scope of School A. Franchise	A form of collaborative provision where a program developed by and leading to an award of the institution (the franchisor) is predominantly delivered and/or supported by one or more collaborative organizations (the franchisee/s). Typically, a franchisee may provide some or all the teaching and may use local teaching and administrative support staff. The qualification bears the name of School A. Franchise agreements typically involve regular oversight by School A during program delivery. Business coursework taken at School B is included in scope for School A if School A is awarding the degree. Study Abroad/ Exchange	A collaborative agreement where learners from one university attend another university for a period of time, such as a semester or year, but their final degree is from their original school. Example: Learners from School A attend a semester abroad at School B, but their degree and program are considered to be part of School A.	Business coursework taken at School B is normally considered transfer credit and thus excluded from scope of School A, subject to Standard 6 limitations. Offshore Arrangement	Denotes educational provision leading to an award/degree in a country other than that of the awarding institution. Typically, the awarding institution provides the majority of teaching and may use their own or local administrative staff. Offshore does not include multi-campus provision of the awarding Institution, whether located in the same or different countries. Business coursework taken at School B is included in scope of School A. 7 For business coursework taken at School B(s) for programs deemed in-scope per the table, this means School A must demonstrate alignment with AACSB standards as usual. Formal Assurance of Learning (AoL) must be completed on the business courses at School B for programs that are in scope, and all faculty from both School A and B delivering courses in business disciplines must be reported in Table 3-1 within the appropriate discipline(s) and Table 3-2 within the appropriate program(s). If School B is not AACSB accredited, School B’s faculty should be classified in Table 3-1 based on School A’s faculty sufficiency and qualification criteria. If School B is AACSB accredited, faculty qualification status may be carried over to School A’s Table 3-1. In either case, the intellectual contributions associated with School B’s faculty are excluded from Table 8-1. 8 If a program is excluded, the faculty at School B are not required to appear in School A tables, nor is formal AoL required for the portion of the program completed at School B. However, School A must ensure that the academic work accepted from School B is comparable to work completed at their own school. If School B is AACSB-accredited, quality is automatically assured, and the school simply notes the partnership is with an AACSB-accredited institution. 9 For example, a student receives a BS in accounting from School A and a BS in marketing from School B. Accreditation Eligibility Criteria A collegiate business school offering at a minimum a baccalaureate degree in business or a field closely related to business may apply for AACSB accreditation. 10 As a first step, the business school must first be a member of AACSB. After joining AACSB as a member, a school seeking accreditation must complete and have accepted an eligibility application, which demonstrates that a school is reasonably able to align with AACSB accreditation standards within the maximum time frame allowed. After acceptance of the eligibility application, the school formally enters the initial accreditation process, during which a mentor is appointed to guide and assist the school during its accreditation journey. During the initial accreditation process, the school is evaluated on how well it aligns with AACSB’s accreditation standards, through a process of self-evaluation and peer review. After earning AACSB accreditation, the business school undergoes periodic peer reviews of its ongoing quality, continuous improvement, and alignment with the standards to maintain its accreditation. 11 For initial applicants, alignment with the following eligibility criteria is viewed as a critical step in the accreditation process. Schools will respond to these criteria as part of the eligibility application and the Initial Accreditation Committee will determine whether the school is in alignment or can reach alignment within a reasonable period of time. 1.	The number of full time faculty should be sufficient to support the mission, strategies, and expected outcomes of the school. Normally, the school should have at least 16 full time faculty at the time the school is invited to an initial accreditation visit. For a school entering the initial process who has less than 16 full time faculty, the initial accreditation committee may allow a school to proceed into the initial accreditation process if they believe the school can reasonably achieve the goal of a minimum of 16 full time faculty at the time of the initial accreditation visit. If the school is not able to reach this goal, this deficiency may cause the initial accreditation committee to decline inviting the school to an initial accreditation visit. 2.	The school should be in good standing with its governing body (e.g., Ministry of Education, regional accreditor, etc.). “Good standing” means the school is not on probation or under an investigation related to a significant legal or ethical breach, or a breach of the governing bodies’ rules and processes. 3.	The school offers at least one baccalaureate and/or graduate degree program (or equivalent) in business administration, management, or accounting independently through their institution, and not in partnership with another institution(s). 10 Examples of fields closely related to business include, but are not limited to, data science, information technology, data analytics, and cybersecurity. As the landscape for what is considered business education shifts and new degree programs emerge, it is the intention of the standards to be flexible enough to accommodate such emerging programs. 11 The requirements for membership and eligibility for accreditation, as well as a full description of the processes and procedures a school follows during the initial accreditation, period can be found in AACSB’s Initial Accreditation Handbook available at www.aacsb.edu. 4.	At the time of initial accreditation, a majority of in scope degree programs have produced graduates during at least two consecutive years. 5.	The school agrees to complete AACSB’s Business School Questionnaire modules annually. 6.	The application for accreditation must be supported by the chief executive officer and the chief academic officer of the school, regardless of the entity seeking AACSB accreditation. 7.	The school agrees to abide by the Guiding Principles contained in the AACSB accreditation standards. Guiding Principles and Expectations for Accredited Schools Guiding principles underpin the shared ideals of AACSB accreditation. They guide accredited schools in behaviors, values, attitudes, and choices as they relate to strategy and operations of the business school. By pursuing and achieving AACSB accreditation, each accredited school stands by and supports these guiding principles. For initial applicants, alignment with these guiding principles and accreditation eligibility criteria is viewed as a critical step in the accreditation process. As such, the documentation a school provides in response to the principles is a signal of its commitment to the underlying core values outlined in in this section and of the school's likelihood for achieving accreditation in a reasonable period. Guiding principles are thus an essential element of the eligibility application. Once a school achieves accreditation, members of AACSB’s Accreditation Council will continue to evaluate the school’s adherence to the guiding principles and determine whether changes in its strategy could affect its ability to continue to fulfill its mission. If a school is determined to be significantly in violation of any of the guiding principles below, the school will be subject to accreditation policies and procedures in place at the time the violation occurs. In the below principles, “school” refers to the accredited entity. 1.	Ethics and Integrity. The school encourages and supports ethical behavior and integrity by learners, faculty, administrators, and staff in all its activities. The school is expected to have appropriate policies and procedures that attest to a strong emphasis on ethical behavior as well as a mechanism for identifying and remediating behavior by those associated with the conduct of the business school. It is expected that internal disputes between learners and faculty or faculty and administration are dealt with at the school level. In particular, individual faculty personnel disputes are to be dealt with through local school channels. Only pervasive issues with systemic implications rise to the level of AACSB involvement and fall under the purview of this provision (e.g., a pattern of systematic discrimination against a particular group of learners or faculty). 2.	Societal Impact. Societal impact as an expectation of all accredited schools reflects AACSB’s vision that business education is a force for good in society and makes a positive contribution to society, as identified in the school’s mission and strategic plan. This includes an expectation that the school explicates its intended strategies to effect a positive impact on society, that the school’s curriculum contains some components relating to societal impact, that the school’s intellectual contributions portfolio contains some contributions focused on societal impact, and that the school is fostering and promoting curriculum and/or curricular activities that seek to make a positive societal impact. 3.	Mission-Driven Focus. AACSB accreditation focuses on outcomes achieved through mission-related activities of the institution. As part of maintaining a robust strategic plan, each school identifies its specific mission, strategies, and expected outcomes. The school, then, is evaluated by peers against its stated mission to determine if its activities are aligned with its stated mission. This allows a wide variety of schools to maintain AACSB accreditation. 4.	Peer Review. The peer review process is a defining characteristic of AACSB accreditation. Peer review is characterized by professional judgment, collegiality, and a commitment to AACSB’s guiding principles. Because the accreditation standards are more principles-based than rules-based, more subjectivity is introduced into the peer review process. Consequently, the experience and training of the peer review team members is critical, which is why they are required to participate in formal training. Schools are strongly encouraged to establish and maintain clear and constant communication with the peer review team and share materials early so that any areas of substantive difference can be discussed prior to the visit. Peer review judgment, through the visit and the subsequent committee evaluation and board ratification, and absent a formal appeal by the school, is what ultimately prevails. 5.	Continuous Improvement. The school demonstrates a commitment to a culture of continuous improvement that yields high-quality outcomes. Consistency of performance over time, stability of oversight, and clear accountability for operations of the accredited school or unit are key elements of continuous improvement. The school demonstrates financial vitality, sustainability, and financial resources sufficient to achieve its operational and strategic goals for the foreseeable future. 6.	Collegiality. The school maintains a collegiate environment. Mutual respect, collaboration, and trust are pursued to enable the business school to promote a positive culture that is supportive of the school’s strategic mission and goals, faculty development, learner success, and thought leadership. The school promotes shared governance and active participation by a cross-section of faculty in university and college service. 7.	Agility. The school maintains a future-oriented mindset, with an eye to the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed by both faculty and learners, and adjusts curriculum content and faculty skill sets where trends in business education, employer feedback, and best practices clearly emerge. Strategic thinking is embraced, and best practices are sought in support of continuous improvement. 8.	Global Mindset. The curriculum imbues the understanding of other cultures and values, and learners are educated on the global nature of business and the importance of understanding global trends. The school fosters sensitivity toward a greater understanding and acceptance of cultural differences and global perspectives. Graduates should be prepared to pursue business careers in a diverse global context. Learners should be exposed to cultural practices different than their own. 9.	Diversity and Inclusion. Diversity in people and ideas enhances the educational experience and encourages excellence in every business education program. At the same time, diversity is a culturally-embedded concept rooted in historical and cultural traditions, legislative and regulatory concepts, ethnicity, gender, socioeconomic conditions, religious practices, and individual and shared experiences. Within this complex environment, the school is expected to demonstrate a commitment to advancing diversity and inclusion issues in the context of the cultural landscape in which it operates. The school fosters awareness, understanding, acceptance, and respect for diverse viewpoints related to current and emerging issues. 10.	Continued Adherence to AACSB Guiding Principles and Business Standards. The school demonstrates continued adherence to accreditation standards and guiding principles and provides timely, accurate information in support of each accreditation review. Schools acknowledge the timeline to complete the initial accreditation process. Schools agree to a peer review visit. Schools acknowledge that AACSB may at any time request a review if questions arise concerning a school’s educational quality, financial resources, or other issues. Significant ethical breaches of conduct within the school may also result in an off- cycle peer review, or board action, as deemed necessary. Any school that deliberately misrepresents data contained within any accreditation report or within AACSB’s Business School Questionnaire is subject to revocation of accreditation status or termination of an initial accreditation application. Structure of the Standards Each of the standards consists of four sections: (1) Standards, (2) Definitions, (3) Basis for Judgment, and (4) Suggested Documentation. Standards The standards identify the essential core component of each topical area. Accredited schools are expected to meet the elements of the standards unless deviations are justified and acceptable to the peer review team, the mentor, and subsequent accreditation committees. Each standard is shown in bold font to identify it as language that is the responsibility of the AACSB Accreditation Council. This means the standards themselves cannot be changed without a majority vote of the Accreditation Council. Definitions Definitions are provided to ensure that the intent of the terminology is clear. Definitions can be provided for clarity of terms within the standard itself, or within the elements that follow and support the standard. Definitions may be updated annually as needed by the Business Accreditation Policy Committee (BAPC). Basis for Judgment This section is intended as guidance to peer review teams as to which factors they should collectively consider in determining whether a school is in alignment with the spirit of any given standard. Schools may also learn from reviewing the basis for judgment how they will be evaluated by a peer review team and accreditation committees. The Basis for Judgment language may be updated annually as needed by the BAPC. Suggested Documentation This section of each standard is written for the school’s benefit to indicate what evidence the peer review team may seek to assess whether the school is aligned with the standard. Note that schools in the initial accreditation process are expected to have available upon request by the peer review team all documentation listed in this section for each standard, while accredited schools generally are not expected to provide such detail during continuous improvement reviews. This practice is consistent with AACSB’s philosophy that subsequent reviews of accredited schools are not a standard-by-standard review with respect to the amount of evidence provided at each continuous improvement review visit. Although continuous improvement reviews are not a standard-by-standard review, the peer review team will still expect schools to remain in alignment with the standards and the guiding principles and expectations for accredited schools that accompany the standards. A more detailed review of alignment with specific standard(s) may occur in the continuous improvement review process when quality concerns are identified. The school template provided by AACSB, along with school conversations with the peer review team collectively guide the accredited school on what specific evidence the peer review team is interested in seeing; however, unless otherwise noted, tables included in standards are expected to be provided by all schools. The Suggested Documentation language may be updated annually as needed by the BAPC. STANDARDS FOR BUSINESS ACCREDITATION Introduction to Standards The accreditation standards consist of three sections: (1) Strategic Management and Innovation, (2)	Learner Success, and (3) Thought Leadership, Engagement, and Societal Impact. Each section contains standards that, when met, lead a school to make a positive individual impact. The combined impact across all AACSB-accredited schools moves AACSB toward achieving its vision of transforming business education for positive societal impact and its belief that business is a force for good in society. AACSB believes that a wide range of missions can be consistent with high quality, positive impact, and innovation. Such success is achieved when schools are clear about their priorities and when their mission, strategies, and expected outcomes are internally aligned. The standards reflect the dynamic and diverse environment of business schools. These standards require the periodic, systematic review and possible revision of a school’s mission, as well as the engagement of appropriate stakeholders in developing and revising the school’s strategic plan. Quality business schools have legacies of achievement, improvement, and impact. They implement forward-looking strategies to further their success, sustain their missions, and make an impact in the future. Central to the dynamic environment of business schools are faculty, professional staff, physical resources, and financial strategies that support change and innovation. Sound financial models and strategies are essential for operational sustainability, improvement, and innovation in a business school. Sustaining quality business education and impactful research requires careful financial planning and an effective financial model. Schools cannot implement actions related to continuous improvement and innovation without sufficient resources. In addition, schools cannot make effective strategic decisions without a clear understanding of the financial implications. Schools must demonstrate both financial vitality based on available resources as well as the resources necessary to achieve their top strategic goals. Faculty and professional staff are also a crucial resource for the school. In identifying faculty resources, a school should focus on the participation and work of faculty members. Faculty contractual relationships, title, tenure status, full-time or part-time status, etc., can help to explain and document the work of faculty, but these factors are not perfectly correlated with participation or with the most critical variables in assessing faculty sufficiency, deployment, and qualifications. What is most important is that the production and maintenance of faculty’s intellectual capital brings currency, rigor, and relevance to a business school’s programs and supports its mission, strategies, and expected outcomes. Faculty should also participate meaningfully in ways that connect academia and the practice of business. In addition, the school must ensure that faculty and professional staff members are sufficient to support research outcomes and other mission-related activities, and that policies, procedures, and feedback mechanisms exist to provide evidence that all participants in these activities produce outcomes of quality and embrace continuous improvement. Where there are problems, evidence of corrective action is essential. In business schools of the future, we expect a proliferation both in the type of consumers of higher education and in the learning models and technology that will facilitate and support learning. The standards envision a wide variety of learners of all ages, participating in the educational experience through a number of modalities of learning as well as locations. Some learners will seek degree credentials, while others will seek microlearning credentials. Lifelong learning will become the norm, and we must consider how quality is assured in courses or modules delivered by AACSB-accredited schools. The standards are designed to be flexible enough to accommodate multiple types of learners, pedagogies, instructional models, and collaborative partnerships, with a continued focus on high-quality outcomes. The currency and relevancy of curriculum will focus on competencies and what learners will be expected to be able to demonstrate upon completion of their program of study. Technology will be ever important, and all AACSB-accredited schools will be expected to have processes in place to ensure that both learners and faculty are competent with current and emerging technologies. These standards also recognize that, with the advent of different program instructional models, certain responsibilities once managed exclusively by those traditionally considered “faculty” may now be shared or managed by others. In other words, developing curricula, creating instructional materials, delivering classroom lectures, tutoring small groups of learners, and grading papers, etc., may be conducted by traditional faculty, by nontraditional faculty, or by a diverse team of individuals. Regardless of the blend of faculty and other key members of the business school’s team, the critical issue is ensuring quality outcomes. Therefore, the school under review must make its case that its division of labor across faculty and professional staff, as well as its supporting policies, procedures, and infrastructure, deliver high-quality learning outcomes in the context of the teaching and learning models it employs. Thought leadership is a critical component of a quality business school. Thought leadership can be demonstrated at the individual level or the school level, or both. The key is to determine and advance the reputation of the school in areas of particular expertise to establish the school as a resource to external constituents. Intellectual contributions are one component of thought leadership, including creation and dissemination of knowledge. An additional component of thought leadership is the myriad additional activities in which a school engages that demonstrate its thought leadership. In this version of the standards we seek to identify, encourage, and promote both curricular and co-curricular activities and best practices through which business schools can have positive societal impact. This occurs through teaching, engagement, experiential and service learning, and activities inside and outside the classroom. A key component of these standards is that the production of intellectual contributions in and of itself is not sufficient for demonstrating thought leadership. It is not the count of peer-reviewed journal articles that is paramount. Production of intellectual contributions is an output measure, but AACSB is more interested in the outcomes of these intellectual contributions; they should answer the question, how are these intellectual contributions connected to solving real-world issues? Business education can help solve the world’s problems when discipline silos are broken down and knowledge is combined across disciplines. Through teaching, education, and scholarship, we seek in this version of the standards to promote such impactful work to better society and contribute to solving some of society’s grand challenges. Strategic Management and Innovation Strategic management encompasses the entire range of activities in which a school engages to fulfill its mission and informs the school on resource management. The primary documentation is the strategic plan, which all accredited schools are expected to have as a principal artifact for the peer review team to examine. The strategic plan provides a basis for the composition of the school’s intellectual contribution portfolio, the identification of peer groups, and the school’s aspirations. The strategic plan identifies the school’s mission, strategic initiatives, goals, objectives, tactics, and metrics for success and is created with input from key stakeholders. Ensuring financial vitality from both an operational and strategic perspective is also a critical part of strategic management. Additionally, an important component of an AACSB-accredited institution is how the school will contribute meaningfully both to connecting business education with business practice and to fostering and promoting societal impact consistent with AACSB’s vision. This section provides standards that guide business schools in the process of meaningful strategic management, including standards around the creation and maintenance of a strategic plan, management of all resources, and ensuring overall financial health of the accredited school or unit. •	Mission is a single statement or set of statements serving as a guide for the school and its stakeholders. These statements capture the school’s core purposes, express its aspirations, and describe its distinguishing features. •	The term focused implies the mission should yield distinctive aspects of the school’s strategies, outcomes and accomplishments that are special or notable. •	Strategies are overarching statements of direction derived from the strategic management processes of the school. Strategies describe how the school intends to achieve its mission and expected outcomes. •	Expected outcomes are conveyed as broad or high-level statements describing the impact the school expects to achieve as it pursues its mission through educational activities, scholarship, and other endeavors. Expected outcomes translate the mission into strategic goals against which the school evaluates its success. •	Societal impact refers to how a school makes a positive impact on the betterment of society, as identified in the school’s mission and strategic plan. Societal impact can be at a local, regional, national, or international level. 1.1	Maintenance of a Strategic Plan •	The school’s mission identifies attributes, focus areas, and priorities that indicate how the school positions itself among the community of business schools. The mission informs the strategic plan and should be reviewed and updated periodically in alignment with the school’s normal planning cycle. The mission statement is articulated as part of the strategic plan. •	The strategic plan is developed and refined through engagement with key internal and external stakeholders. •	The strategic plan is available for review by the peer review team and demonstrates a commitment to continuous improvement through regular review and revision and through key stakeholder input. •	The school’s strategic plan defines the communities and learners the school intends to serve, including the level of degree programs the school offers. The school also identifies the non-degree programs and corresponding communities it intends to serve. •	The plan identifies strategies for maintenance of a high-quality learner experiences, including current and relevant curriculum and strategies for recruitment and retention of qualified faculty. •	The school’s strategic plan clearly identifies the type of intellectual contributions it expects faculty to produce to influence business education and to connect with the practice of business, consistent with the school’s stated mission. •	The school’s strategic plan identifies the strategies through which the school intends to provide thought leadership within intellectual contributions. 1.2	Monitoring of the Strategic Plan •	The school is transparent in the conveyance of its strategic plan and regularly reports on its progress toward achieving its mission, strategies, and expected outcomes to both internal and external key stakeholders. •	The school should maintain an ongoing risk analysis, identifying potential risks that could significantly impair its ability to fulfill the school’s mission, as well as a contingency plan for mitigating these risks. 1.3	Innovation •	The strategic plan identifies how and where the school is innovative in thought and in action. 1.4	Societal Impact •	The school’s strategic plan clearly identifies the strategies, including the allocation of human and financial capital, through which it will make a positive impact on society, the practice of business, the diversity of people and ideas, and the success of graduates. •	Provide the strategic plan of the business unit that encompasses the strategies and expected outcomes to be pursued by the school, consistent with the school’s mission. The strategic plan should include a description of the mission, strategies, and expected outcomes, including how the mission is encapsulated in supporting statements. •	Describe processes for creating and revising the strategic plan, including a description of how internal and external key stakeholders both inform the plan and are kept abreast of progress toward meeting goals of the plan. •	Include in the plan strategies for promoting a high-quality learner experience and curriculum currency and relevancy. •	Include in the plan a discussion of the faculty management model, including recruitment, retention, and development of qualified faculty. •	Ensure the strategic plan clearly identifies the types (e.g., basic, applied, or teaching and learning) and priorities of intellectual contributions the school intends to produce consistent with its mission. •	Describe the focused nature of the mission for the school’s stakeholders, relative to learners, employers, and other key stakeholders. •	Describe how the strategic plan and mission of the school relate to and support the strategic plan and mission of any larger organization of which it is a part. •	Summarize and document annual progress toward meeting goals of the strategic plan. •	Describe the risks that could impede the school’s ability to fulfill its mission and the plan to mitigate these risks. •	Describe how the plan is shared with key internal and external stakeholders, identifying these groups specifically and how such key stakeholder input has been incorporated into the plan. •	Describe how the school’s strategic plan encourages and supports innovation across all school activities, including faculty and staff hiring plans, curricular and co-curricular content and activities, interdisciplinary efforts, and technologies both employed within teaching and taught within the curriculum. •	Include within the strategic plan how the school will allocate both human and financial capital to support the school’s aspiration to make a positive contribution to society. •	Describe how the mission positively impacts society, business education, the diversity of people and ideas, and the success of graduates. •	Physical resources include buildings, furniture and fixtures, technology labs, collaboration space, libraries (including virtual), and any other physical infrastructure directly used by the school. •	Virtual resources include technology infrastructure needed to support all instructional delivery modes and for faculty to conduct research and other scholarship consistent with the school’s mission. •	Financial resources include adequate funding from all sources derived to operate the school on a quality basis and achieve its strategic initiatives, goals, and expected outcomes. 2.1	Physical Resources •	The school has learning spaces and environments that facilitate the achievement of its educational mission. The school maintains a plan for updating space as appropriate over time. 2.2	Virtual Resources •	The school provides infrastructure to support its instructional activities for all modalities. •	Faculty have access to sufficient current and emerging technologies for both teaching and research purposes consistent with their mission, strategies, and expected outcomes. Such access may be realized through partnerships with other schools or other third parties. •	Professional staff are provided adequate training and technology infrastructure for advising, career placement, and other mission-specific activities. 2.3	Financial Resources •	The school’s strategic plan identifies realistic financial strategies to provide, sustain, and continuously improve all aspects of quality business education consistent with the school’s mission. •	The school should maintain a risk assessment specific to the school’s financial situation and describe the contingency planning process to mitigate the identified risks. •	The school identifies realistic sources of financial resources for current and planned activities. The school has carefully analyzed the costs and potential resources for initiatives associated with its mission and action items. •	The school has a financial plan for ensuring a sufficient level of faculty and professional staff resources and for managing these resources, including recruiting, retaining, and developing appropriately qualified faculty and professional staff. The financial plan also addresses necessary resources to sustain high-quality outcomes for learner support resources. •	Describe the space plan for classroom instruction, improvements that have been made to spaces and environments, and plans for future space enhancements and innovations. •	Describe the technology infrastructure the school maintains to support all mission-centric activities of the school for all modalities of instructional delivery, including technology used in both face-to-face delivery and digital learning. •	Describe the current and emerging technologies to which faculty have access in order to fulfill their teaching and research responsibilities. •	Describe the training for professional staff to learn and implement new technologies to support learner success. •	Provide a summary of recent financial performance and discuss the financial outlook for the next accreditation cycle. Highlight successes the school has had with obtaining funding, including grants, private funds, or alternative revenue streams that have been generated through innovative activities and partnerships, or other similar successes that enhance the financial vitality of the school. Also describe challenges that are expected to arise in the next accreditation cycle and include strategies for mitigating such challenges. As a complement to the strategic planning overall risk assessment described in Standard 1, provide a risk assessment specific to the school’s financial resources and describe the contingency planning process the school will use if a significant reduction in resources occurs. •	Describe the major resource commitments or development projects that have been undertaken and completed since the last accreditation review. •	Complete Table 2-1 to describe the school’s major planned strategic initiatives consistent with its mission and the expected source of funds for those plans. •	Document the school’s financial management plan for recruiting, retaining, and developing appropriately qualified faculty and professional staff. Include documentation describing hiring practices, development, and evaluation systems for faculty that support diversity and inclusion considerations and ensure high-quality outcomes relative to mission and strategies. •	Document the financial plan to sustain high-quality outcomes for learner support resources. Table 2-1 Strategic Initiatives and Expected Source of Funds for the Next Accreditation Cycle Strategic Initiatives Total Estimated Investment Expected Source of Funds (if known) •	A participating faculty member actively and deeply engages in the activities of the school in matters beyond direct teaching responsibilities. Normally, the school considers participating faculty members to be ongoing members of the faculty, regardless of whether their appointments are full-time or part-time, whether their positions with the school are considered their principal employment, and whether the school has tenure policies. •	A supporting faculty member does not normally participate in the intellectual or operational life of the school beyond the direct performance of teaching responsibilities. •	Research master’s degrees are degrees that focus heavily on research methods and independent research projects as the primary program content. •	Faculty qualifications status refers to one of four categories designated to demonstrate current and relevant intellectual capital or professional engagement in the area of teaching to support the school’s mission and related activities. Categories for specifying faculty qualifications are based on both the initial academic preparation or professional experience, and sustained academic and professional engagement within the area of teaching as follows: 	Scholarly Academics (SA) are faculty who have normally attained a terminal degree in a field related to the area of teaching and who sustain currency and relevancy through scholarship and activities related to their field of teaching. SA faculty are normally expected to produce some peer-or editorial-reviewed publications related to their field of teaching as part of their portfolio of scholarship. In addition to publications related to their field of teaching, SA faculty may produce other publications outside their field of teaching in support of other mission-related components of the school and reflective of the faculty member’s role at the school. 	Practice Academics (PA) are faculty who have normally attained a terminal degree in a field related to their area of teaching and who sustain currency and relevancy through professional engagement, interaction, and activities related to their field of teaching. 	Scholarly Practitioners (SP) are faculty who have normally attained a master’s degree related to their field of teaching; have professional experience substantial in duration and responsibility at the time of hire; and who sustain currency and relevancy through scholarship related to their professional background and experience in their field of teaching. 	Instructional Practitioners (IP) are faculty who have normally attained a master’s degree related to their field of teaching; have professional experience substantial in duration and responsibility at the time of hire; and who sustain currency and relevancy through continued professional experience and engagement related to their professional background and experience in their field of teaching. 	Additional Faculty (A) are faculty who do not meet the school’s criteria for SA, PA, SP, or IP. •	Professional staff include individuals who do not have faculty appointments but provide direct support for ancillary activities. Examples of professional staff include, but are not limited to, career services, learner services, admissions, alumni engagement, corporate engagement, instructional support, and other key mission components. 3.1	Faculty Sufficiency •	A school adopts and applies criteria for documenting faculty members as "participating" or "supporting" that are consistent with its mission. Each school should adapt this guidance to its particular situation and mission by developing and implementing criteria that indicate how the school is meeting the spirit and intent of the standard. The criteria should address the activities that are required to attain participating and supporting status and the depth and breadth of activities expected within a typical AACSB accreditation review cycle to maintain participating and supporting status. The criteria should be periodically reviewed and reflect a focus on continuous improvement. •	Normally, participating faculty members will deliver at least 75 percent of the school’s teaching globally (i.e., across the entire accredited unit); participating faculty members will deliver at least 60 percent of the teaching within each discipline, regardless of whether the school has a degree, major, concentration, etc., in the discipline. Additionally, while participating faculty ratios are expected to be met by the discipline, they are not intended to be applied to degree programs, locations, and modalities. Instead, a peer review team would normally expect an appropriate blend of participating and supporting faculty to be deployed across these areas. •	Disciplines are defined by the school in the context of their mission. Normally, the disciplines should align with the degree programs and/or majors offered by the school. However, not every degree program must have an identified discipline. •	Instructional models such as mass lectures supported by teaching assistants, faculty not in residence but who may travel periodically to the school to deliver a particular program such as a DBA program, faculty shared across institutions, visiting faculty, and online program managers who deliver digital instruction should be clearly identified and documented as to how this method of instructional delivery leads to high-quality learning outcomes and high learner satisfaction. •	In cases where a substantial proportion of a business school’s faculty resources hold primary faculty appointments with other institutions, the school must provide documentation of how this faculty model supports mission achievement, overall high quality, and continuous improvement, and how this model is consistent with the spirit and intent of this standard. In particular, the school must show that the faculty model is consistent with achieving the research expectations of the school. 3.2	Faculty Qualifications •	Faculty members can be Scholarly Academic (SA), Practice Academic (PA), Scholarly Practitioner (SP), or Instructional Practitioner (IP). Faculty members should be assigned one of these designations based on the school’s criteria for initial qualifications and sustained engagement activities that support currency and relevancy in their teaching field. 12 Faculty whose qualifications do not meet the criteria established by the school for SA, PA, SP, or IP status will be classified as “Additional” Faculty. 12 Refer to the Interpretive Guidance for Standard 3 for information on special circumstances in which a faculty member may be classified differently across more than one discipline. Figure 1: Model for Faculty Qualifications Sustained engagement activities Academic (Research/Scholarly) Applied/Practice Initial academic preparation and professional experience Terminal degree Master’s degree; professional experience, substantial in duration and level of responsibility •	Criteria for SA and PA Status 	For initial classification of SA or PA, a terminal degree related to their field of teaching is appropriate. Note that a faculty member can be considered SA or PA for five years from the date of conferral of the terminal degree. Doctoral students with teaching responsibilities who have attained all-but-dissertation (“ABD”) status will be considered SA for three years from the commencement of ABD status. A variety of terminal degrees may be appropriate where the terminal degree is related to the faculty member’s field of teaching. 	Examples of commonly accepted terminal degrees in business include: •	doctoral degrees in business or a closely-related business discipline (PhD or DBA); •	a graduate degree in law (LLM) and/or taxation (MST) for those teaching taxation •	a law degree (LLM, or JD) for those teaching courses or modules related to law or aspects related to the legal environment of business (e.g., ethics, sustainability, etc.). 	Additional terminal degrees may also be appropriate for SA status when the degree is closely related to the faculty member’s field of teaching and the faculty member sustains currency through scholarly activities in that field consistent with this standard. 	While unusual, a faculty member without a terminal degree may be classified as SA or PA, but the faculty member must clearly be engaged in sustained, substantive academic and/or professional engagement activities to support their currency and relevancy in their field of teaching and their contributions to other mission components; such activity is expected to be consistent with the activities in which the school’s other terminally-qualified SA faculty engage. The school will be expected to make its case for SA or PA status in such cases. AACSB expects that there will be only a limited number (normally not to exceed 10 percent of all faculty) of cases in which individuals without terminal degrees also have SA or PA status. 	Subsequent to initial classification, there must be ongoing, sustained, and substantive academic activities (for SA) or professional engagement activities (for PA) supporting qualification status. •	Criteria for IP and SP Status 	For initial classification of IP or SP, a master’s degree in a discipline related to the faculty member’s field of teaching, along with significant and substantive professional experience is appropriate. In limited cases, IP or SP status may be appropriate for individuals without master’s degrees if the depth, duration, sophistication, and complexity of their professional experience at the time of hiring outweighs their lack of master’s degree qualifications. The school will be expected to make its case for IP or SP status in such cases. 	Subsequent to initial classification, there must be ongoing, sustained, and substantive professional engagement activities (for IP) and scholarly activities (for SP) supporting qualification status. •	School Criteria 	Each school should develop appropriate criteria and policies for the classification of faculty, including those faculty who also hold significant administrative appointments (e.g., deans, associate deans, department heads/chairs, or center directors) and according to initial preparation and sustained engagement activities. Criteria for such administrators should consider the weight relative to the individual’s administrative role. For example, the criteria may differentiate between a dean with significant administrative responsibilities vs. a department head with a smaller administrative workload. These criteria and policies should cover both initial classification and maintenance of qualified status subsequent to initial classification. Sustained engagement activities, including research and scholarship, should be substantially connected with and in support of the primary teaching responsibilities of the faculty member to demonstrate how the faculty member is current and relevant in their field of teaching. Criteria and policies should be consistent with the mission of the school and comparable to peer schools. •	Discipline and Global Ratio Minimums 	Normally, a minimum of 40 percent of a school’s faculty resources are SA and 90 percent are SA+PA+SP+IP at the global level (i.e., across the entire accredited unit) and in disciplines defined by the school in alignment with degrees or majors. Where a school maintains generalist degrees (e.g., BBA, General Business, MBA, etc.) with associated concentrations/areas of focus, then areas of concentration/areas of focus should normally be treated like disciplines with respect to meeting ratios. Schools that emphasize research master’s and doctoral degree programs are expected to have higher percentages of SA faculty, maintain a strong focus on SA faculty, and place high emphasis on faculty who undertake scholarly activities to maintain SA status as consistent with their peer institutions and their mission. 	The ratio of SA faculty at the discipline level may be less than the 40 percent minimum if the school makes appointments to drive new, innovative, or interdisciplinary initiatives. In these instances, the burden is on the school to make its case as to how it maintains high-quality outcomes. Peer review judgment and discretion is called upon to determine when such exceptions are appropriate. 	In disciplines where the school does not offer any degree programs or majors, the 40 percent SA ratio is not expected as a norm since those faculty would be supporting other degree programs. 	“Additional” Faculty (A) should not exceed 10 percent of the school’s overall faculty or within each discipline. 	In all cases where the school does not align with the faculty sufficiency and qualification guidelines at the discipline (in cases where degree programs or majors are offered) or global level, the school must make its case through demonstration of high-quality, evidence-based programs, student learning outcomes, and evidence of learner and/or employer satisfaction as appropriate. The peer review team will consider such departures on a case-by-case basis and employ professional judgment when these guidelines are not met. •	Faculty Deployment 	Table 3-2 is intended to provide a snapshot of how qualified faculty are deployed across degree programs for the entire accredited unit in the most recently completed regular academic year. Because Table 3-2 documents only a portion of the faculty member’s contribution to the school’s mission—the teaching component—schools are not required to meet the 40 percent SA ratio used to calculate faculty qualifications in Table 3-1, which includes all activities in which a faculty member engages (i.e., teaching, research, service, other) to contribute to the mission of the school. However, schools are expected to meet the 90 percent SA+PA+SP+IP ratio across degree programs for Table 3-2 in order to validate that the school deploys qualified faculty across degree levels. 	The deployment of the school’s blend of SA, PA, SP, and IP faculty members must result from a strategic choice by the school and be consistent with the school’s mission and strategic initiatives, and be carried out in a way that promotes high-quality learner success and achievement of learning competencies in all programs, locations, and modalities. While AACSB does not prescribe SA deployment percentages by program, location, or modality, a peer review team would normally expect a blend of faculty across degree programs, locations, and modalities and take into consideration the level of degree programs offered at other locations and in various modalities, where such distinction is appropriate. Additionally, research master’s degrees and doctoral degrees everywhere should reflect a faculty complement with qualifications consistent with what is needed to provide high-quality experiences and outcomes to these learners. High-quality outcomes can be demonstrated through assurance of learning data provided by degree program. 	Table 3-2 is prepared at a macro-level across all degree programs, locations, and modalities; however, peer review teams may request supplemental breakout of Table 3-2 by a particular location or modality, where appropriate, as determined by the team. It is recognized that blended modalities are becoming increasingly common; therefore, modality in and of itself is often not a necessary breakout. Nevertheless, if the peer review team deems it appropriate to view Table 3-2 by modality, it is within their discretion to request the table for a particular location or by modality. 3.3	Professional Staff Sufficiency •	Sufficient professional staff are maintained to support instructional, technological and learner support needs on an ongoing basis, regardless of whether they are housed in the business school or centralized within a larger, shared unit such as the university. •	Processes for managing and developing professional staff and services are well defined and effective. 3.4	Faculty and Professional Staff Development •	Faculty expectations, evaluation, promotion, and reward processes are systematic, transparent, and support the school’s mission. •	A workload allocation model is appropriate for faculty to fulfill all responsibilities competently. •	The school has effective processes for providing orientation, guidance, mentoring, and inclusive developmental practices for faculty and professional staff. •	Sufficient professional development with respect to current and emerging technologies is provided to faculty and professional staff involved in delivery of instruction. •	Teaching assistants, tutors, or other staff who participate in alternative instructional models are appropriately prepared for classroom instruction and are managed and supervised to promote high-quality outcomes. •	Professional staff have access to development opportunities to retain currency in the areas they support. 3.1	and 3.2 Faculty Sufficiency and Faculty Qualifications •	Provide the school’s criteria for participating and supporting faculty, as well as SA, PA, SP, and IP faculty. Describe how these criteria align with the school’s mission. •	Table 3-1 should be completed for the most recent regular academic year prior to the visit year (often referred to as the “self-study year”), by discipline, to demonstrate alignment with Standard 3. The Interpretive Guidance provides additional information on completing Table 3-1. •	Table 3-2 should be completed for the most recent regular academic year prior to the visit year. The school should also provide a narrative that describes its strategy for deployment of an appropriate blend of both sufficient participating faculty and qualified faculty across degree programs, locations, and modalities, and how that strategy assures high-quality outcomes. •	The school should include a discussion of any significant changes in faculty composition since the last accreditation review, and strategies and plans for recruiting and deploying qualified faculty within the next accreditation cycle. •	The school must provide information on each faculty member for the peer review team as evidence to support the classification of each faculty member. This information should be provided electronically in the form of academic CVs or equivalent documents, organized in accordance with Table 3-1. •	Provide a narrative describing instructional teaching models, such as lead teachers supported by teaching assistants, tutors, instructors, or other support staff. Describe the qualifications of those who support these instructional models. Provide evidence that describes how such models maintain high-quality outcomes and learner satisfaction. •	Describe the professional staff structure with respect to advising, career placement, IT support, faculty instructional support, library support, and faculty research support. Identify which resources are centralized and supported at the university level and which are maintained and supported within the school. •	Describe how the professional staff structure supports high-quality outcomes. •	Describe processes for determining performance expectations for faculty. •	Describe processes for orientation, guidance, and mentoring of faculty and professional staff. •	Describe evaluation, promotion, and reward processes, as well as ways that faculty are engaged in these processes. •	Describe how faculty and professional staff are provided with professional development opportunities to remain current in their field of instruction, and particularly with respect to the use of current and emerging technologies to deliver instruction. Table 3-1 Faculty Sufficiency and Qualifications Summary for Most Recently Completed Regular Academic Year, by Discipline Faculty Portfolio by Discipline List by Individual Faculty Member Within Discipline Faculty Sufficiency Related to Teaching (e.g., SCH, ECTS, contact hours)	Normal Professional Responsibilities Faculty Qualifications With Respect to Percent of Time Devoted to Mission Brief Description of Basis for Qualification (Enter brief quantitative and/or qualitative information corresponding to the school criteria for each category.) Individual Faculty Member Name	Specialty Field	Highest Degree, Year Earned	Participating Faculty Teaching Productivity (P)	Supporting Faculty Teaching Productivity (S)		Scholarly Academic (SA)	Practice Academic (PA)	Scholarly Practitioner (SP)	Instructional Practitioner (IP)	Additional Faculty (A) Discipline A	Degrees or majors12F	are offered in this discipline ☐ 13 Degrees or majors are not offered in this discipline ☐ Faculty A Faculty B Faculty C Total Discipline A 13 Concentrations/areas of focus may be treated as disciplines for generalist degrees. Refer to Standard 3.2 for this circumstance. Discipline A Ratios Faculty Sufficiency Guidelines: •	Discipline A: P/(P+S) > 60% Faculty Qualifications Guidelines: •	Discipline A SA guideline: (SA)/(SA +PA + SP + IP +A) > 40% •	Discipline A SA + PA + SP + IP guideline: (SA + PA + SP + IP)/(SA + PA + SP+ IP + A) > 90% Show all other disciplines and ratios separately Grand Total Overall Ratios •	Overall guideline: P/(P+S) > 75% •	Overall SA guideline: •	Overall SA + PA + SP + IP guideline: Table 3-2 Deployment of Faculty by Qualification Status in Support of Degree Programs for the Most Recently Completed Regular Academic Year Faculty percent of teaching by program and degree level (indicate metric used: credit hours, contact hours, courses taught, or another metric appropriate to the school) Degree Program 14 13F	Scholarly Academic (SA) %	Practice Academic (PA) %	Scholarly Practitioner (SP) %	Instructional Practitioner (IP) %	Additional (A) %	Total % Bachelor’s Program						100% Research Master’s Program A						100% MBA Program						100% Specialty Master’s Program B						100% Doctoral Program						100% 14 Bachelor’s programs can be combined into one line, while master’s and doctoral programs are listed individually. Learner Success This section of the accreditation standards is designed to ensure the success of learners in the school’s degree programs and other learning experiences provided by the school. The standards in this section address these critical areas of teaching and learning. High-quality business schools have processes for ensuring that learners will acquire the competencies to achieve successful outcomes in line with the mission of the school and develop a lifelong learning mindset to ensure continued success. These processes include curriculum and program management informed by systematic assurance of learning. Schools should have assessment processes in the portfolio of assurance of learning tools that will ensure the currency and relevancy of the business curriculum. Competency goals should be designed and assessed to maximize the potential for achieving expected outcomes. Teaching should be linked to competency goals, and processes should be in place to ensure that faculty are delivering a high-quality educational experience. Curricula and extracurricular programs should be innovative and foster engagement among learners, between learners and faculty, and with business practice. •	A curriculum is composed of program content, pedagogies (teaching methods, delivery modes), and structures (how the content is organized and sequenced to create a systematic, integrated program of teaching and learning), and identifies how the school facilitates achievement of program competency goals. A curriculum is influenced by the mission, values, and culture of the school. •	Curriculum content includes theories, ideas, concepts, skills, and knowledge that collectively make up a degree program. 15 •	Competencies state the educational expectations for each degree program. They specify the intellectual and behavioral capabilities a program is intended to instill, as well as the knowledge, skills, and abilities expected as an outcome of a particular program. In defining these competencies, faculty members clarify how they intend for graduates to be competent and effective as a result of completing the program. Not all content areas need to be included as competency goals. Competency goals should be aligned with the mission of the school. •	Experiential learning includes a wide variety of activities such as internships, service learning, study abroad, consulting projects, and other high-impact pedagogical practices. •	Curriculum management refers to the school’s processes and organization for development, design, and implementation of each degree program’s structure, organization, content, assessment of outcomes, pedagogy, etc. Curriculum management captures input from key business school stakeholders and is influenced by assurance of learning results, new developments in business practices and issues, and revision of mission and strategy that relate to new areas of instruction. •	An innovative curriculum may be exhibited by incorporating cutting-edge or creative content or technologies and varied pedagogies and/or delivery methods. 4.1	Curriculum Content •	Contents of degree program curricula result from effective curriculum management processes and include relevant competencies that prepare graduates for business careers and foster a lifelong learning mindset. •	All business degree programs include an understanding of, and appreciation for, cultural norms across various regions and countries and how such differences impact managerial decision-making. •	Curriculum should reflect current and innovative business theories and practices. •	Normally, business degree programs at the bachelor’s level include learning experiences that address core competencies characteristic of a successful business graduate of an AACSB-accredited school, as well as content from business disciplines, such as accounting, economics, finance, management, management information systems, marketing, and quantitative methods. 15 Non-degree programs (e.g., non-degree executive education, certificates, minors, etc.) are not intended to be covered by this standard. Refer to Standard 5 for a discussion of assurance of learning for such programs. •	Graduate degree programs will have higher-order learning experiences, such as synthesis and integration of information. •	Specialized business master’s degree programs normally include an understanding of the specified discipline from multiple perspectives, an understanding of the specialization context, and preparation for careers or further study. •	General business master’s degrees ordinarily include preparation for leading an organization, managing in a diverse global context, thinking creatively, making sound decisions and exercising good judgment under uncertainty, and integrating knowledge across fields. •	Doctoral degree programs normally include advanced research knowledge and skills, an understanding of specialization context, and preparation for faculty responsibilities or positions outside academia. Doctoral degree programs include an appreciation for the production of research that contributes positively to society. Doctoral degree programs intended to prepare learners for academic positions devote significant time in the program of study to successful classroom instruction and management. •	Current and emerging technology is appropriately infused throughout each degree program as appropriate for that degree and level of program (i.e., bachelor’s, master’s, doctoral). A learn-to-learn expectation is instilled in learners to facilitate agility in adaptation to emerging technologies in the future. 4.2	Curriculum Management •	Curriculum management has sound governance, and faculty are engaged in the process in terms of ownership and use of results for implementing changes and improvement. •	Curriculum management fosters and promotes innovation. 4.3	Innovation, Experiential Learning, Lifelong Learning, and Societal Impact •	The school has an innovative approach to curriculum, whether related to content, pedagogy, or delivery method, that demonstrates currency, creativity, and forward-thinking. •	The school provides a portfolio of experiential learning opportunities that promote learner engagement between faculty and the community of business practitioners. •	The school promotes a lifelong learning mindset in learners, including creativity, intellectual curiosity, and critical and analytical thinking. •	The school has a portfolio of curricular elements within formal coursework that promote a positive societal impact. 4.4	Engagement •	The level and quality of sustained learner-to-learner and learner-to-faculty interactions are consistent with the degree program type and achievement of learning goals. •	Learner-to-faculty interactions involve all types of faculty members. For any teaching/learning model employed, learners have meaningful engagement with the faculty responsible for the course. •	Curricular and co-curricular activities embody engagement and interaction between faculty, learners, and business practitioners. •	Describe learning experiences appropriate to the areas listed in section 4.1 of the “Basis for Judgment,” including how the areas are defined and how they fit into the curriculum. If a curriculum does not include learning experiences normally expected for the degree program type, provide rationale for this choice. •	Consistent with the school’s mission, describe how degree programs include learning experiences that develop competencies related to the integration of relevant technology. •	Provide a narrative description of current and emerging technologies for which graduates would be able to demonstrate a reasonable level of competency employed at each degree level (undergraduate, MBA, specialized master’s, doctoral). Do not include ordinary and usual software programs such as word processing or presentation software. •	Describe governance related to curriculum management, including structure and activities of related committees or task forces. •	Describe how governance and processes, practices, or activities ensure curricular currency and foster innovation. •	Describe innovations in curriculum, as they have occurred, with respect to content, pedagogy, or delivery. Explain how these innovations demonstrate currency, creativity, and forward-looking curricula. •	Document experiential learning activities that provide business learners with knowledge of, and hands-on experience in, the local and global practice of business across program types and teaching and learning models employed. •	Describe how the school encourages learners to take responsibility for their learning and promotes characteristics of a lifelong learning mindset. •	Document curricular elements within formal coursework that foster and support learners’ ability to have a positive impact on society. •	Summarize how learner-to-learner and learner-to-faculty interactions are supported, facilitated, encouraged, and documented. •	Describe how learners have succeeded and excelled through curricular and co-curricular engagement with faculty and the business community. •	Assurance of learning (AoL) refers to the systematic processes and assessment plans that collectively demonstrate that learners achieve learning competencies for the programs in which they participate that are within the scope of the school’s accreditation. AoL also includes the processes of identifying competency gaps and designing and implementing changes to the curriculum and learning experience so the learning competencies are met. AACSB accreditation is concerned with broad, program-level, focused competency goals for each degree program, rather than detailed competency goals by course or topic. •	Competency-based education (CBE) refers to courses where learners progress at their own pace, based on their ability to demonstrate proficiency with a specific skill or competency. CBE includes credit for prior learning. •	Direct measures refer to evidence from learner work such as examinations, quizzes, assignments, and internship or externship feedback that is based on direct observation of individual performance behaviors or outcomes. •	Indirect measures of learning refer to evidence attained from third-party input that is not based on direct observation of individual performance behaviors or outcomes. For example, an employer survey asking for an assessment of how a school’s learners have performed on internships relative to learners from peer institutions is an indirect measure. However, a learner who completes an internship for degree credit and is assessed by the company on individual performance, with such feedback provided to the school, is a direct measure. Examples of indirect assessments include exit surveys, alumni surveys, advisory council feedback, employer input, career fair feedback, inspection of course documentation, external outcome measures, focus groups, and interviews. As with direct assessments, indirect assessment should be supportive of the competency goals of the particular degree program, including the successful achievement of those competency goals. •	Executive education refers to educational activities that typically do not lead to a degree but have educational objectives at a level consistent with higher education in business. Examples include corporate training or professional development seminars. Where executive education programs are degree-granting, normal assurance of learning processes and other standards apply. •	Competencies throughout this standard is understood to broadly encompass knowledge, skills, and abilities. •	Microlearning credentials are certifications granted by assessment of mastery of a specialized competency. Such credentials may sometimes be “stackable,” or combined to collectively satisfy the requirements of a degree program. Minors, certificates, and badges are common microlearning credentials. 5.1	Assurance of Learning Processes •	The school identifies learning competencies for each business degree program as well as appropriate direct and indirect measures that are systematically assessed to demonstrate that learning competencies are achieved across degree programs. •	Competencies derive from and are consonant with the school's mission, strategies, and expected outcomes and are reported at the degree level, as opposed to the major level. •	Competencies and curriculum management processes reflect currency of knowledge and expectations of stakeholders, including but not limited to organizations employing graduates, alumni, learners, the university community, and policymakers. •	Competencies are largely achieved. Where competencies are not achieved, the school provides evidence of actions taken to remediate the deficiencies. •	Both direct and indirect measures are employed; a school is expected to include both types of measures across the entire portfolio of assessment of all its degree programs. The proportion of direct versus indirect measures by degree program is determined by each school, consistent with its mission and strategic initiatives. It is acceptable for some programs to be assessed only through direct measures, while other programs may be assessed through only indirect measures. The school provides its rationale for determining which programs are measured through direct measures and which programs are measured through indirect measures. •	Results of regular direct and indirect assessment should lead to curricular and process improvements. •	The school employs a systematic AoL process that includes meaningful and broad faculty participation. •	Programs launched since the last review should have a robust AoL plan in place, including a timeline for gathering and analyzing data. Depending on how long the program has been offered, some data may or may not have yet been gathered. A program that has been offered for five years would be expected to have gathered sufficient data to demonstrate a systematic and effective process for the program; however, a program just launched one or two years before a normal peer review visit may not have yet gathered sufficient data to demonstrate a systematic and effective process. The standards intend that, in the case of a newly launched degree program, schools should be given sufficient time to establish a systematic assessment process that adequately demonstrates student learning; in such a case, a robust assessment plan is of paramount importance. 5.2	Degree Equivalency •	Expectations for learner effort and outcomes for the same degree credentials are equivalent in terms of depth and rigor, regardless of delivery mode or location. •	If competency-based education (CBE) credit is awarded by the school, normally the equivalent quality is assured via direct assessment of learners. CBE credit should reflect a small percentage of the total academic program. 5.3	Stackable Microlearning Credentials •	Credentials such as certificates, minors, and badges that lead to a degree program will be evaluated at the degree program level. 5.4	Non-Degree Executive Education •	Non-degree executive education should normally be reviewed for overall quality, continuous improvement, and customer/client satisfaction if such programs generate greater than five percent of a school’s annual resources. •	For each degree program provide a portfolio of evidence across degree programs that includes direct and indirect assessment of learning, showing learner progress in meeting competency goals for each business degree program. The proportion of direct versus indirect measures within each degree program is determined by each school, consistent with its mission and strategic initiatives. Examples of programs that lend themselves to indirect measurement only are programs that are newer, smaller, niche, specialized, and interdisciplinary programs, or programs very closely tied to professional fields. Indirect evidence should be relative to the competencies stated for the degree program to which indirect evidence is applied. Schools in the initial accreditation process should complete Table 5-1 for each degree program. The table is optional for schools in the continuous improvement review process. •	Where assessment demonstrates that learners are not meeting learning competencies, describe efforts the school has instituted to improve such learning outcomes. •	Provide evidence that faculty are sufficiently and meaningfully engaged in AoL processes. •	If the business school is subject to formalized regional or country regulations or quality assurance organizations focused on the evaluation of learner performance, and these processes are consistent with AACSB expectations and best practices 16, relevant or redundant portions may be applied to demonstrate assurance of learning. The burden of proof is on the school to document that these systems support effective continuous improvement in learner performance and outcomes. Consult the mentor or peer review team chair for further guidance. •	Show that degree program structure and design expectations are appropriate to the level of degree programs and demonstrate that expectations across educational programs that result in the same degree credentials are equivalent, regardless of delivery mode, location, or time to completion. •	Be prepared to provide evidence of equivalent learning outcomes for identical degrees offered at different locations or in different modalities. Examples may include, but are not limited to, assurance of learning outcomes, graduation rates, retention rates, placement rates, employer and alumni surveys, and learner satisfaction statistics. •	Provide a list of microlearning credentials that may be stacked into a degree and describe how the portfolio of microlearning credentials is aligned with the school’s mission and strategy. •	Explain how these credentials may lead to a degree and describe how quality is assured for these microlearning credentials. •	Describe the portfolio of executive education programs and how the portfolio is aligned with the school’s mission and strategy. •	Provide a narrative discussing how the school ensures high-quality processes and outcomes in its executive education offerings in cases where a school’s non-degree executive education revenue exceeds five percent of the school’s total annual resources. •	Describe processes for ensuring that client expectations are consistently met. 16 Refer to the Standard 5 Intepretive Guidance, section titled Essential Elements for additional information. Table 5-1 Assessment Plan and Results for Most Recently Completed Accreditation Cycle by Degree Program (Table is Optional for CIR Reports, Mandatory for Initial Reports) Competency Performance Target How Assessed Where Assessed When Assessed Results	Improvements Identify whether process (P) or curriculum (C) (Date changes were made) Direct Measures Indirect Measures 6.1	Admissions, Progression, Degree Completion, and Career Development Support •	Policies and procedures related to degree program admission are clear, effective, and transparent and are aligned with the school’s mission, strategies, and expected outcomes. •	The school actively seeks to attract and retain diverse learners consistent with AACSB Guiding Principle 9. •	Normally, graduate business degree program admission criteria should include the expectation that applicants have or will earn a bachelor’s degree prior to admission to the graduate program. The school should be prepared to document how exceptions support quality. •	The school defines and broadly disseminates its policies for evaluating, awarding, and accepting transfer credits or courses from other institutions. These policies should ensure that the academic work accepted from other institutions is comparable to the academic work required for the school’s own degree programs. •	Apart from collaborative provision programs, normally the majority of learning in business disciplines that count toward degree fulfillment (as determined by credits, contact hours, or other metrics) is earned through the institution awarding the degree. In this context, business disciplines do not include general education courses but do include courses in the major, required business courses, and business electives. 17 •	The school prepares and supports learners to ensure academic progression toward degree completion, including clear and effective academic performance standards and processes, consistent with degree program competency goals. 17 Collaborative provision programs are formal agreements between an accredited school and a partner school. Treatment for such programs is discussed in the “Collaborative Provisions/Transfer Credit” section of the standards. •	High-quality advising services are available to learners on a consistent and timely basis. •	Strategies are employed to identify and provide intervention and support for learners who are not progressing adequately, including underrepresented or otherwise at-risk populations. Learner support services, including academic assistance and advising, career advising and placement, alumni relations, public relations, fundraising, and admissions, as well as other mission-related activities, are appropriate and available with a high degree of service-mindedness for appropriate consumers of these services. •	The school provides effective career development support for learners and graduates that is consistent with degree program expectations and the school’s mission, strategies, and expected outcomes. 6.2	Academic Program Quality and Post-Graduation Success •	The school has post-graduation employment data, graduate school attendance data, or other measures, as available to the school, that indicate post-graduate success. •	In addition to public disclosure information required by national or regional accreditors, schools provide readily accessible, reliable, and easily understandable information to the public on the performance of their business learners, including learner achievement information and overall program quality, as determined by the school. •	Describe admissions policies and processes and demonstrate that they are consistent with program expectations, aligned with the school’s mission, and transparent to all participants. •	Describe the strategies in place to attract and retain diverse learners consistent with Guiding Principle 9. •	If an exception to the school’s admission and/or progression policies is made, provide justification and the basis for doing so. •	Describe the school’s policies governing the acceptance of transfer credit and how quality is assured for transfer credit. •	Describe academic advising services available to learners. •	Describe how appropriate interventions are undertaken when learners are failing to thrive or progress toward successful and timely degree completion, including learners from underrepresented or otherwise at-risk populations. •	Describe any information technologies used to support admissions, academic progression, and career development. •	Describe processes in place to support career development activities such as career counseling, career days, workshops, career fairs, etc. •	Document post-graduate learner success. Success may be defined in a variety of outcomes besides traditional employment in a business field. Examples of such information include, but are not limited to, graduation rates, job placement outcomes, certification or licensure exam results, employment advancement, internships, entrepreneurial activity, and activity with positive societal impact, as well as case examples of successful graduates. •	Schools provide relevant and timely public disclosure data documenting overall academic program quality. This information should be available on the accredited unit’s website, where it is clearly displayed and distinguishable from university amalgamated data. Disclosures are not prescriptive but are informed by the school’s mission, strategies, and expected outcomes, and may include post-graduate learner success outcomes, admission data, retention and time-to-degree data, diversity and inclusion advances, particular program emphases, student learning outcomes, rankings data, experiential learning opportunities, meaningful societal impact, or other mission-specific outcomes. 7.1	Teaching Effectiveness •	The school has a systematic process for evaluating teaching effectiveness as an integral component of the faculty and professional staff performance review process. This process should include multiple methods of evaluating teaching as well as expectations for continuous improvement. The school’s methods and practices related to teaching effectiveness should be clearly linked to the school’s mission, strategies, and expected outcomes. 7.2	Support for Teaching Effectiveness •	The school provides development activities focused on teaching enhancement and incentives to continuously improve teaching effectiveness to all faculty who have teaching responsibilities across all delivery modes. 7.3	Faculty Preparedness •	Faculty are adequately prepared to teach various modalities and pedagogies of degree programs. •	Faculty demonstrate a lifelong learning mindset with respect to their domain expertise. This means faculty take responsibility for continuing their professional development to maintain currency and relevancy in their field of expertise and area(s) of teaching and embrace the idea that we never stop learning. •	Faculty are adequately prepared to teach diverse perspectives in an inclusive environment. 7.4	Teaching Impact •	Teaching effectiveness results in impact through demonstrated learner success and satisfaction. Impact of teaching is also demonstrated through faculty credentials, awards, and certifications, as well as through dissemination of expertise via avenues that may include seminars, the scholarship of teaching and learning, and peer mentoring. •	Describe how the school evaluates teaching performance across its various program instructional models. •	Discuss how the school ensures that the faculty engaged in different teaching and learning models have the competencies required for achieving high quality. •	Describe continuous improvement and development initiatives for faculty who focus on teaching enhancement and learning for a diverse learner population. •	Document faculty participation in teaching enhancement initiatives over the past five years. •	Describe incentives for faculty to continuously improve teaching effectiveness. These may include performance evaluation processes, awards, pedagogy grants, support to attend teaching conferences, or other recognitions and support. •	Describe the school’s process for remediating ineffective teaching when the school deems it necessary. •	Describe faculty development activities designed to ensure that faculty are current and using high-quality pedagogy. •	Describe how the school supports faculty preparedness to deliver instruction across various degree program modalities and pedagogies. •	Describe how faculty are prepared to teach in an inclusive environment, including workshops or trainings that the faculty or school may have participated in. •	Describe how faculty demonstrate a lifelong learning mindset and how the school supports this lifelong learning goal. •	Describe how faculty remain current and relevant in their area(s) of teaching. •	Summarize awards or other recognitions that faculty have received for outstanding teaching and professional support of learning. •	Document innovative and/or effective teaching practices that have had significant, positive impact on learning. •	Provide exemplars of learner success either with respect to the school’s current learners or alumni. •	Document examples of teaching impact, such as results of learner and/or employer satisfaction surveys, teaching awards (internal and external), teaching credentials or certifications, scholarship of teaching and learning, mentoring, and participation in teaching seminars or presentations at teaching conferences. Thought Leadership, Engagement, and Societal Impact The defining feature of quality business schools is that they are making a significant difference through educational activities, thought leadership, and engagement with external stakeholders. Quality schools create and disseminate intellectual contributions that have an impact on the theory, practice, and/or teaching of business, and have a positive impact on society. Often these contributions are the result of engagement with broader society in a manner that facilitates co- creation of knowledge and ensures the relevance, usefulness, and impact of the school’s intellectual contributions. Achieving this impact requires a school to have a clear focus and direction for its thought leadership that aligns with its mission. Further, high-quality schools have a positive societal impact by addressing broader social, economic, business, and/or physical environment issues, which could be at a local, regional, national, or international scale. This impact results from internal and external initiatives and aligns with the concept of business schools being a force for good in society. Within this context, interdisciplinary work becomes an important means to achieving goals that have great impact on society. Thus, interdisciplinary work is encouraged and applauded. This section contains two standards. The first standard focuses on the production, dissemination, and impact of a school’s thought leadership as it relates to scholarship, while the second assesses a school’s engagement with and impact on society. •	Society in this context refers to external stakeholders of relevance to the business school given its mission. Examples include nonprofit and private-sector organizations; business, government, and community groups; and the broader social, economic, business, and physical environments. These external stakeholders and broader environments may be at a local, regional, national, or international scale. •	Thought leadership is evidenced when a business school is recognized as a highly respected authority in an area or areas of expertise, and is thus sought after by relevant stakeholders. Aligned with the school’s mission, these stakeholders should include learners, business, academics, government, nonprofits, non-governmental organizations, and/or broader society. •	Predatory journals and publishers are defined as “entities that prioritize self-interest at the expense of scholarship and/or are characterized by false or misleading information; deviation from best editorial and publication practices; a lack of transparency; and/or the use of aggressive and indiscriminate solicitation practices.” 18 •	Intellectual contributions are original works intended to advance the theory, practice, and/or teaching of business. Further, intellectual contributions may have the potential to address issues of importance to broader society. The contributions are scholarly in the sense that they are based on generally accepted academic research principles and are disseminated to appropriate audiences. The school’s portfolio of Intellectual contributions may fall into any of the following categories: 	Basic or Discovery Scholarship is directed toward increasing the knowledge base and the development of theory. 	Applied or Integrative/Application Scholarship draws from basic research and uses accumulated theories, knowledge, methods, and techniques to solve real-world problems and/or issues associated with practice. 	Teaching and Learning Scholarship explores the theory and methods of teaching and advances new understandings, insights, content, and methods that impact learning behavior. In addition to the categorization of intellectual contributions within the portfolio as basic, applied, or teaching/learning related, schools further characterize their intellectual contributions according to the level of peer or expert review that has occurred for the intellectual contributions appearing in their portfolio. For our purposes, peer-reviewed intellectual contributions are those that are subject to the scrutiny and evaluation of others who have recognized subject matter expertise in the same field, normally with a similar competence to those who are producing the outputs. 18 Definition adopted from “Predatory Journals: no definition, no defence.” (Nature 2019, December 11). Retrieved from https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-019-03759-y This component in separated into three parts: 	Peer-reviewed journal articles are scholarly publications that were submitted for critique and evaluation by one or more academics who have expertise in the discipline and/or methodology of the subject matter. Publications in law reviews may be included in this category. 	Other peer-or editorial-reviewed intellectual contributions include forms of quality assurance by either peers or subject matter experts recognized as having particular practical or academic expertise in that field. Examples include papers submitted for an academic conference that undergo peer review to be selected for conference presentation or for publication in conference proceedings. Articles published in practitioner or industry publications can be included in this category if they are sufficiently reviewed by subject matter experts. Other intellectual contributions that are not journal articles but are papers sufficiently influential with public policy, government, or industry can be included in this category if they are sufficiently reviewed by subject matter experts. Simply writing a paper as an output of consulting or other work does not render it appropriate for this category. The review and validation by subject matter experts is the determining factor as to whether such an intellectual contribution belongs in this category or in the third category of other intellectual contributions. 	All other intellectual contributions include outputs that are not validated by peers or those recognized as subject matter experts. These contributions include a wide variety of outputs such as presentations at academic or professional meetings, research workshops led, invited talks, etc. 8.1	The Production of High Quality, Impactful Intellectual Contributions •	The school has in place processes, systems, and resources to support the production of quality intellectual contributions and assess their impact. •	The school’s intellectual contributions have an impact on theory, practice, and/or teaching of business. •	The school has a five-year portfolio of its intellectual contributions. The distribution of intellectual contributions across categories in the portfolio is aligned with the school’s mission, strategy, and aspirations for reputation as a thought leader. As such, the types of intellectual contributions will vary across schools just as their missions vary. •	The school identifies its area(s) of thought leadership, outlines its goals for these contributions, and describes its achievements over the last five years as well as plans for the next five years. Examples of areas that could evolve into thought leadership include organizing and holding regional, national, or international academic and/or practitioner conferences; holding meetings for academic or professional organizations; publishing working-paper series; publishing academic journals; establishing a case study clearinghouse; or forming research relationships with private-sector, nonprofit, or government organizations. •	One important type of intellectual contribution is the publication of high-quality peer- reviewed journal articles. The production of peer review journal articles is a key way in which faculty maintain currency and expertise in their field. Thus, all schools are expected to have some high-quality peer-reviewed journal articles in their portfolio of intellectual contributions. The type of peer review journal articles should be aligned with their school’s mission. Schools with primarily teaching missions may produce more high-quality applied and pedagogical research, while schools offering research master’s and doctoral degrees are expected to produce a greater percentage of high-quality basic research. •	A significant cross section of faculty in the school and each discipline is engaged in the production of intellectual contributions, relying heavily on participating faculty. •	The school assesses and evaluates the quality of its intellectual contributions and has clarity on its future direction. •	The school has policies that guard against publishing in predatory journals. 8.2	Collaboration with Stakeholders •	Systems, processes, and resources are in place to support engagement with relevant external stakeholders by the school, units within the school, faculty, and learners. These engagements produce credible knowledge, contribute to new venture creation, and/or create commercialization opportunities that ultimately are useful for external communities, apply to the practice of business, and address real issues in society. The collaborations with stakeholders contribute to the school’s reputation as a thought leader in its desired area. 8.3	The Societal Impact of Intellectual Contributions •	The portfolio of intellectual contributions contains exemplars of research and publications that have a positive societal impact that is consistent with the school’s mission and strategic plan. This may include interdisciplinary research undertaken by business school researchers with academics from non-business disciplines. •	Using Table 8-1, provide a five-year portfolio of evidence that summarizes the intellectual contributions of the school aggregated in a way that reflects the disciplines of the school. Schools can provide supplemental information at their discretion to present a more robust view of their intellectual contributions. •	In Table 8-1 (A), provide the total number of intellectual contributions produced by faculty who are employed by the school in the year of record. These intellectual contributions are identified by portfolio, type, and percentage of faculty producing them. The table should be organized using the same disciplines as reflected in Table 3-1. •	In Table 8-1 (B), outline how the intellectual contributions are aligned with the school’s mission, strategies, and expected outcomes. •	In Table 8-1 (C), identify how the school measures the quality of its intellectual contributions and apply these measures to analyze the five-year portfolio. Include an evaluation against current and future desired states and any changes that will be implemented as a result. •	In Table 8-1 (D)(i), using qualitative and/or quantitative metrics, provide an analysis of the impact made by the school’s portfolio of intellectual contributions. •	Clearly outline how the school supports and encourages faculty to produce intellectual contributions. Include an outline of financial support, incentives and rewards, performance expectations, development opportunities, and other initiatives that ensure faculty are developed and/or supported to develop quality intellectual contributions. •	Describe the school’s processes to identify high-quality research and scholarship, including a description of how the school guards against promoting publications in predatory journals. •	Identify the thought leadership aspiration for the school and evaluate progress toward this goal as well as plans in place for the next five years. •	Outline the processes, systems, and resources in place to facilitate engagement between the school, units within the school, faculty, learners, and relevant external stakeholders. Describe how these engagements encourage the creation and/or co-creation and communication of relevant and timely knowledge. •	In Table 8-1 (D)(ii) describe exemplars of scholarship that have had a positive societal impact as a component of thought leadership. Table 8-1 Intellectual Contributions Part A: Summary of Intellectual Contributions Over the Most Recently Completed Accreditation Cycle Aggregate and summarize data by discipline. Do not list by individual faculty member.	Portfolio of Intellectual Contributions	Types of Intellectual Contributions	% of Faculty Producing Intellectual Contributions Basic or Discovery Scholarship	Applied or Integration/Application Scholarship	Teaching and Learning Scholarship	Total	Peer-reviewed journal articles	Additional peer- or editorial-reviewed intellectual contributions	All other intellectual contributions	Total	Percentage of participating faculty producing ICs	Percentage of total Full Time Equivalent (FTE) faculty producing ICs (List disciplines separately) Total Part B: Alignment with Mission, Strategies, and Expected Outcomes Provide a description of how the portfolio of intellectual contributions by faculty and by units within the school, where appropriate, align with mission, strategies, and expected outcomes. Part C: Quality of Five-Year Portfolio of Intellectual Contributions Identify the qualitative and quantitative measures of quality used by the school and apply these measures to analyze and evaluate the portfolio of intellectual contributions. Part D: Impact of Intellectual Contributions (i)	Analyze the impact of the portfolio of intellectual contributions on the theory, practice, and/or teaching of business, including qualitative and quantitative evidence. (ii)	Provide exemplars of the societal impact of the school’s intellectual contributions. 9.1	Positive Societal Impact •	The school has a range of engagements with external stakeholders through its core activities that align with and support its mission, strategies, and expected outcomes as well as its aspiration to have a positive impact on society. •	Activities and initiatives, both internal and external, are in place that contribute to the school meeting the societal impact aspiration it outlined in Standard 1. •	Progress toward meeting the school’s aspiration for societal impact over the previous five years is apparent, and there are plans for advancing these efforts over the next five years. •	Over time it is expected that more of the school’s activities will have a societal impact and that it will be generated by an increasing proportion of the school’s faculty, learners, and organizational units. •	The school evaluates its societal impact consistent with its mission, including identification of its aspiration in this area and significant exemplars of success. •	Outline the major relationships with external stakeholders that the school, units within the school, faculty, and learners have in place; the rationale for the relationships; and the intended outcomes. •	Explain how engagement with business and broader society aligns with and supports the school’s mission, strategies, and expected outcomes as well as its aspiration to have a positive societal impact. •	Describe the school’s aspiration for societal impact and explicitly outline how it measures, or intends to measure, progress in this area. •	Include an evaluation of the school’s societal impact over the most recent accreditation cycle, including identification of its aspiration in this area, exemplars of societal impact arising from engagement with non-academic external stakeholders by learners, faculty, teams, or centers that are supporting external communities, enhancing the practice of business, and/or addressing real-world problems and improving society. Include an assessment of how effective the school has been toward having its desired impact, and plans for activities over the next accreditation cycle. •	Table 9-1 can be used at the school’s discretion to categorize its societal impact and related outcomes, including those pertaining to Standards 1, 4, 8, and 9. If this optional table is used, the table contents should reflect the outcomes/impact of the activities and initiatives as opposed to a simple description of the activities and initiatives. The outcomes/impact of these activities are paramount. The school may use the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals or a label of their choice to indicate their chosen focus area(s). Table 9-1 Outcomes of Societal Impact Activities and Initiatives Across all Areas of the Standards (Table is Optional for both CIR and Initial Reports) Focus	Societal	Outcomes Related	Outcomes Related to	Outcomes Related to Area(s)	Impact	to Curriculum	Scholarship	Internal and External Chosen by	Strategy	(Standard 4)	(Standard 8)	Initiatives and/or the School	(Standard 1)			Activities (Standard 9) Assessment of Overall Impact and Discussion of Future Plans 2020 INTERPRETIVE GUIDANCE FOR AACSB BUSINESS ACCREDITATION Introduction	3 Strategic Management and Innovation	3 Standard 1: Strategic Planning…	3 Standard 2: Physical, Financial, and Virtual Resources	8 Standard 3: Faculty and Professional Staff Resources…	9 Learner Success	27 Standard 4: Curriculum	27 Standard 5: Assurance of Learning	30 Standard 6: Learner Progression	37 Standard 7: Teaching Effectiveness and Impact	39 Thought Leadership, Engagement, and Societal Impact	41 Standard 8: Impact of Scholarship	41 Standard 9: Engagement and Societal Impact	50 Appendix A	56 INTRODUCTION The Interpretive Guidance document complements the 2020 Business Accreditation Standards and supplies additional guidance beyond what is provided in the Standards document, including examples or sample tables where appropriate. Note that with respect to updating of these two documents—the 2020 Business Accreditation Standards and the Interpretive Guidance—the AACSB accreditation standards (shown in bold print in a separate document) are the responsibility of the Accreditation Council (i.e., representatives of the schools currently holding AACSB business accreditation); however, the Definitions, Basis for Judgment, and Suggested Documentation that reside within the Standards document may be updated as needed in between updates to the standards. This Interpretative Guidance document is also intended to be updated as needed in between updates to the standards. In both cases, the Business Accreditation Policy Committee (BAPC) is vested with the authority to approve changes to all components except the standards (bold print) themselves. The date last updated is reflected on the front of both the Standards and Interpretive Guidance documents. STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT AND INNOVATION The three standards comprising “Strategic Management and Innovation” are designed to provide schools with guidance on the process of meaningful strategic management, as well as management of all necessary resources. Standard 1: Strategic Planning I.	Rationale The standard on strategic planning is presented first because AACSB-accredited schools view a robust strategic plan as fundamental to the successful AACSB- accredited business school. It is one of the first documents reviewed by the peer review team to identify the school’s mission, what its goals are, how it intends to achieve those goals, and how leadership will allocate resources to meet the school’s goals. II.	Clarifying Guidance AACSB is not prescriptive in the form of the plan, and the standards are not intended to provide one particular template. Schools are free to use any one of a variety of differing forms of strategic plans; however, there are essential elements found in most robust strategic plans. Some elements of a robust strategic plan for AACSB standards purposes may include a mission statement; strategic initiatives, goals, objectives, and key performance indicators; a discussion of how the school intends to make a positive societal impact; risk assessment and contingency planning; how the plan is monitored; and how key stakeholders are meaningfully involved. Strategic plans should be regularly monitored by the school, and key stakeholders should be involved in this process. Mission A mission statement is not usually described entirely by one statement alone; rather, it is a set of statements that describe the school and its mission, vision, and values. These ideas, taken together, express the school’s mission and define its core identity, values, stakeholders, and aspirations. The mission statement or supporting set of statements normally include the primary purpose and focus of the school, the types of degrees offered, characteristics of learners served, and the school’s focus with respect to the production of intellectual contributions. As a necessary component of strategic planning, the school should identify what it seeks to achieve in both the near and the far term, with such time horizons identified by the school. For example, a school may have a short-range strategic plan, supplemented with a broader set of goals it would like to achieve in a longer period of time. Strategic initiatives describe what the school intends to pursue, and consequently allocate resources to, on a strategic basis. These initiatives answer what the school intends to do above and beyond its normal operational goals, which are not generally included in a strategic plan, although the school may choose to supplement the strategic plan with an operating plan. Examples of strategic initiatives include such ideas as creating or expanding new programs or new target markets, seeking strategic partnerships, building or expanding facilities, creating interdisciplinary programs, seeking to build a particular area of thought leadership or higher profile, etc. Activities such as routine hiring of faculty and staff, maintenance of programs, ongoing maintenance of the school’s budget, and learner recruitment and enrollment management are normally considered operational, as they relate to the day-to-day routine in which all business schools participate. While operational activities are generally not included in the school’s strategic plan, at times these routine activities may rise to the level of being strategic in nature when there is a definite strategic element. For example, an enrollment growth target of two percent annually may be routine, or, an enrollment growth that will be achieved by recruiting learners from underserved communities could be considered strategic. The line between operational and strategic activities usually depends on whether activities are considered routine and ongoing versus above and beyond normal for the school. Goals, Objectives, Tactics, and Key Performance Indicators Each strategic initiative should be supported by one or more goals and accompanying objectives that identify the expected outcomes related to that strategic initiative. While goals are broad statements that identify what the school wants to achieve, objectives are the specific and measurable components that describe how the school will achieve that goal. AACSB does not prescribe the number of objectives that correspond to a specific goal, but by way of guidance, we note that it is common to see two to four objectives for each goal. A school may have more or fewer as appropriate for their purposes. In comparison, tactics are usually embedded under objectives and identify specific activities that will be undertaken in support of a given objective. Tactics can be thought of as the action items necessary to meet objectives. Key performance indicators are metrics that a school identifies to gauge their progress towards meeting their goals. While the school may actually track a large number of metrics, key performance indicators are by definition a smaller number of metrics that the school uses to determine if they are on track strategically. Societal Impact The school should be specific in its desired societal impact, how it is monitored, and how progress is measured. Societal impact can be defined at the level consistent with the school’s mission and resources. That is, some schools will have goals to improve their local communities, some will have goals to impact the business community, and others will have goals to make an international impact on society. The key is for the school to align its activities with its mission. Risk Analysis Many schools find themselves in difficult financial or environmental circumstances for which they have no training or planning. Some examples include a sudden drop in enrollment, a significant budget cut, or numerous other issues that could threaten the reputation, brand, or financial viability of the school. A good strategic plan contains risks and threat assessments and plans for how the effects of events would be mitigated. Contingency planning also relates to succession planning. This planning becomes even more important with faculties that have low turnover and for which a large number of faculty vacancies may occur within a short time. Additionally, as a best practice the school should integrate succession planning into their strategic plan. Monitoring The school should actively and regularly monitor and measure its progress toward achieving its strategic initiatives, goals, and objectives. Often this monitoring is done as part of a school’s yearly summary of activities. The peer review team will generally review evidence that the school is using its plan to guide decision making within the school and to ensure that the plan is regularly reviewed and updated as necessary, including the mission statement and all other components. Stakeholder Involvement An important component of a well-devised strategic plan is that key stakeholder involvement is demonstrated at every stage of the process, from the creation of the strategic plan to regular review, ideally at least annually, and reporting of progress toward achieving goals explicated within the plan. Shared governance in this area is particularly important, and faculty play an integral role at all stages. A plan that is devised solely with administrative input is not in keeping with the spirit of the standards. Other key stakeholders normally included in strategic planning include learners, representatives from the business community, advisory boards, key university representatives where there are explicit connections and/or support provided to the business school, and alumni. Within the broader university environment, it is important that the accredited school’s strategic plan aligns with and supports the university’s or parent organization’s plan. III.	Examples The example below demonstrates the relationship between strategic initiatives, goals, objectives, and tactics typical of a school’s strategic plan. This is not intended to be a template, but rather one example that might be used effectively within a school. Strategic Initiative 1: Reduce class sizes while maintaining high-quality instructional faculty Goal	Objective	Tactics	Measure of Success	Resources Needed 1.1 Increase quality and size of faculty	1.1 Hire two new high-quality faculty	1.1 Recruit at the top three academic conferences	1.1 Two high-quality faculty hired, and class size reduced to 30:1	1.1 Search committee, recruiting budget of xx. 1.2 Benchmark proposed salaries against our peer set of schools using AACSB DataDirect 1.3 Pay at the 75th percentile of AACSB Compensation Survey to attract high quality faculty The following is an example of a risk analysis that accompanies a school’s strategic plan. RISK ANALYSIS – HIGHLAWN SCHOOL OF BUSINESS AUGUST 1, 2020 Risk Description Likelihood of Risk Occurring Impact If the Risk Occurred	Severity (Based on Impact and Likelihood) Mitigating Action(s) Responsible Parties Significant reduction in 2021- 2022 freshman enrollment due to lingering effects of COVID-19 Medium High High		Schedule several additional virtual and de-densified, on- campus Open House Events 	Engage alumni in recruiting efforts (panel discussions, individual outreach) 	Increase personal interactions with prospective learners (email and mailing campaigns)	Undergraduate Admissions, University Advancement, Dean’s Office Expected retirement of several tenured faculty members over the next 3-5 years High		Develop promising internal candidates (adjunct faculty) for tenure-track or full-time contract positions 	Obtain Provost’s Office approval of 5-year hiring plan Dean’s Office Failure of Learning Management System and disruption of online and on- ground offerings Low Low		Maintain backup system with copies of course materials/resources 	Schedule and test regular updates to platform Department of IT Govt. policy restrictions and continuing impacts of COVID-19 lead to reduction in graduate business international student enrollments1 Medium		Provide additional scholarship incentives for current undergraduate learners who continue in graduate programs 	Increase opportunities for revenue generation through continuing education and certificate programs 	Increase advertising, promotion and recruiting efforts domestically Graduate Admissions, Dean’s Office, Graduate Program Directors Govt. restrictions and continuing impacts of COVID-19 lead to reduction in graduate business international student enrollments	75%	$800,000	$600,000		Provide additional scholarship incentives for current undergraduate learners who continue in graduate programs 	Increase opportunities for revenue generation through continuing education and certificate programs	Graduate Admissions, Dean’s Office, Graduate Program Directors Changing demographics in the region result in fewer future high school graduates and fewer entering freshmen High		Increase promotion and recruiting efforts in more demographically favorable regions 	Explore opportunities for internal and external alliances to add attractive degree program options	Undergraduate Admissions, University 1 Risk duplicated to show both a qualitative and quantitative approach to assessing risk. Standard 2: Physical, Virtual, and Financial Resources How a school manages its resources is a crucial part of its success both in meeting its mission and other components of its strategic plan. Resources in Standard 2 include all types of resources with the exception of faculty and professional staff, which are covered in Standard 3. In this standard we set the expectation that a school can demonstrate operational vitality to achieve ongoing operations, as well as the resources to achieve their strategic initiatives as identified by the school. Also of interest is the overall operating budget and efficiency measures related to the budget, and how the school’s budget has changed since the last review. An AACSB-accredited school should be able to demonstrate financial health, a sound financial model, and facilities and technology appropriate to a quality education. Physical Resources Here the peer review team is concerned with the quality of the school’s facilities, including buildings, furniture, and fixtures. Is the space in good condition, or is it in disrepair? Are there any safety issues with respect to the space? Additionally, the physical space in which the business school conducts classes is expected to be reflective of current pedagogies. Sufficient space for team activities and other collaborative activities should be available to learners. That space may be located in other places besides the business school (e.g., the library). Virtual Resources Technology is expected to be infused through the curriculum and is vital to the production of scholarship and thought leadership. Here the peer review team will seek to determine whether the school has current computing technology—both hardware and software—for faculty and staff that is sufficient to achieve the school’s mission and strategic plan. For example, do faculty have access to the databases or other sources of data needed to conduct research? Is the technology infrastructure current to support the desired teaching quality and modality? Financial Resources Table 2-1 is included for the school to demonstrate its financial vitality from a strategic perspective. III.	Sample Table Strategic Initiatives	Total Estimated Investment	Expected Source of Funds Improving learner-facing technical infrastructure	800,000 USD	Government-provided funds/grants Increase Scholarly Academic faculty in marketing and management	650,000 USD	University funds Marketing the new MS in finance degree program	300,000 USD	University funds Awarding of endowed professorship in marketing	1,000,000 USD	Private donor Standard 3: Faculty and Professional Staff Resources One hallmark that distinguishes an AACSB-accredited school from a non-AACSB accredited school is the quality of faculty and staff employed by the school. AACSB looks at both the degree to which faculty participate in the life of the school on a meaningful basis (“faculty sufficiency”) and what the academic credential and ongoing activities are that sustain faculty currency and relevancy (“faculty qualifications”). These measures are a combination of both input and output measures that proxy for quality of faculty. Discipline and Specialty Field Table 3-1 requires reporting faculty by discipline, irrespective of organizational structure. For example, a school with a Department of Accounting, Finance, and Information Systems should report those faculty within the disciplines identified by the school, according to what discipline (subject) they normally teach. In cases where a school’s national regulator requires the school to combine certain disciplines for reporting purposes (e.g., accounting and finance), the school may do so for AACSB purposes, as well. Additionally, if the school offers an interdisciplinary business degree it may combine the disciplines in which the degree is offered in their reports assuming individual degree programs in these areas are not offered. The school’s approach to discipline reporting should be discussed with AACSB accreditation staff and the school’s peer review team. Teams may request a more detailed breakdown if deemed necessary for the review. Disciplines are defined by the school in the context of their mission. Normally, the disciplines should align with the degree programs and/or majors or other areas where intellectual capital would be expected to be maintained, including concentrations and specialties. For example, a school offering a Master of Accountancy would normally be expected to identify accounting as a discipline. It is important to note, however, that not every degree program will require a unique discipline be identified. For example, the discipline of management may offer a multitude of degrees and/or majors (e.g., entrepreneurship, strategy, human resources, etc.) for which faculty could all be reported under the discipline of management.2 Discipline reporting should focus on the macro level disciplines (e.g., accounting, finance, management, etc.) instead of the individual sub-disciplines (e.g., audit, tax, risk, HR, strategy, supply chain, etc.). It is commonly observed that the management discipline will be large by virtue of the many sub-disciplines contained within management. If a faculty member teaches in two disciplines, the faculty member can be apportioned between the disciplines accordingly. In such a case, the faculty member should be classified depending on the faculty member’s qualification in each discipline. For example, a faculty member who teaches two courses in accounting and two courses in finance, and who achieves SA status in both areas, would be shown in both accounting and finance with teaching hours apportioned for faculty sufficiency purposes; SA status would reflect the appropriate percentage of time devoted to mission in each of the respective disciplines for faculty qualifications purposes. Note that faculty qualification status does not automatically carry over for every discipline in which the faculty member is listed. Rather, faculty members must meet the qualification criteria defined by the school for each discipline, which can mean two different classifications for one faculty member. The burden is on the school to clearly document that the faculty member meets the school’s faculty qualifications criteria in multiple disciplines. The faculty member’s intellectual contributions would be shown in accounting and finance as appropriate in Table 8-1. If the amount of teaching in the second discipline is immaterial, the school may choose not to apportion the faculty member but report their qualifications in the primary teaching discipline, in accordance with a principles-based approach. Some disciplines may not offer degree programs but in fact may contain courses that service other degree programs. For example, courses or modules in business law may support multiple degree programs without any associated degree programs in business law alone. In that case, the school should list business law as a separate discipline in Table 3-1 and check the box that indicates no degree, majors, etc. are offered in this 2 For additional guidance and examples on organizing Table 3-1, refer to Appendix A. discipline. This logic carries over to any similar service courses. Common examples of such service courses include, but are not limited to, statistics and economics (when taught within the business school). Commonly observed business disciplines include accounting, business law, economics, finance, management, marketing, and information systems (or another form of information systems, such as management information systems or information technology/operations management). Faculty are also listed with the specialty subfield within their discipline in Table 3-1. Specialty Field is the field/discipline of focus, from the master list provided by AACSB, that most closely aligns with the individual faculty member’s focus and role. The Specialty Field classification supports peer benchmarking and aggregate or trend analysis of faculty compensation, faculty sufficiency, and faculty qualifications. Given the many unique variations in how business schools structure their faculty, the specialty field may or may not match the discipline heading for the faculty member reported in Table 3- 1.	However, among schools that participate in the annual AACSB Staff Compensation and Demographics Survey, the specialty field should match the individual’s field/discipline as reported in that survey. The specialty list to be used in Table 3-1 can be found here. Table 3-1 should also indicate the normal professional responsibilities of each faculty member using the following guide: UT for undergraduate teaching; MT for master’s-level teaching, DT for doctoral-level teaching/mentoring, ADM for administration, RES for research, ED for non-degree executive education, and SER for other service and outreach responsibilities. A faculty member may have more than one category assigned. The final column of Table 3-1 is “Brief Description of Basis for Qualification.” This column is intended to provide the peer review team with a high-level overview of the basis on which a faculty member is classified as SA, PA, SP, IP, as reflected in the school’s faculty qualifications guidelines. Schools should provide a code or brief description for each faculty member for the benefit of the peer review team; additional information should be attached as needed to understand a school’s coding system. Faculty Sufficiency A participating faculty member will be engaged beyond teaching in matters such as policy decisions, advising, research, and service commitments to the school. The faculty member may participate in the governance of the school and be eligible to serve as a member on appropriate committees responsible for academic policymaking and/or other decisions. Normally, the school considers participating faculty members to be ongoing members of the faculty, regardless of whether a faculty member’s appointment is of a full-time or part-time nature, whether their position with the school is considered their principal employment, and whether the school has tenure policies. The individual may be eligible for, and participate in, faculty development activities and have non-teaching assignments, such as advising or committee assignments, as appropriate to the faculty role the school has defined, taking into consideration the depth and breadth of the non- teaching assignment. A supporting faculty member does not usually have deliberative or involvement rights on faculty issues, membership on faculty committees, or assigned responsibilities beyond direct teaching functions (e.g., classroom and office hours). Similar to the above, classification as a supporting faculty member does not rely on the person’s contractual status with the institution. Depending on the teaching and learning models and associated division of labor across faculty and professional staff, the faculty body is sufficient in numbers and presence to perform or oversee the following functions related to degree programs: •	Curriculum development: A process exists to engage multidisciplinary expertise in the creation, monitoring, evaluation, and revision of curricula. •	Course development: A process exists to engage content specialists in choosing and creating the competencies, learning experiences, media, instructional materials, and learning assessments for each course, module, or session. •	Course delivery: A process exists for ensuring access to instruction from appropriately qualified faculty and staff at the course level. •	Assessment and assurance of learning: The obligations specified in the assurance of learning processes for the school are met. •	Other activities that support the instructional goals of the school's mission. Faculty should be sufficient to ensure achievement of all mission activities. This could include high-quality and impactful intellectual contributions and, when applicable, executive education, community service, institutional service, service in academic organizations, service that supports economic development, organizational consulting, and other expectations the school holds for faculty members. Completion of Table 3-1: Faculty Sufficiency As per the standard, normally, participating faculty members will deliver at least 75 percent of the school’s teaching globally (i.e., across the entire accredited unit) and 60 percent of the teaching within each discipline, as defined by the school. Table 3-1 should be completed to document the distribution of participating and supporting faculty for the most recently completed, regular academic year prior to the year of a peer review visit (often referred to as the “self-study year”). For example, if School A's visit is in February 2025 and its normal academic year runs from September to June, Table 3-1 will capture September 2023 to June 2024. The teaching productivity metric used to calculate faculty sufficiency must reflect the operations of the business school (e.g., student credit hours [SCH], European Credit Transfer System [ECTS], contact hours, individual courses, modules, or other designations that are appropriately indicative of each faculty member’s teaching contributions). To avoid any unnecessary conflicts, concurrence on all aspects of the metric with the peer review team well in advance of the visit is a best practice. If a faculty member has no teaching responsibilities, they must be included in Table 3-1 and reflected in the qualifications section of the table. In this case the two columns related to faculty sufficiency should be left blank. Deans/heads of business units should be included in the table and classified based on the school’s faculty qualifications criteria. Digital courses should use the same teaching productivity metric being used for in- person courses and the method used should be described. Faculty Qualifications AACSB standards recognize four distinct faculty qualification categories in which faculty members may be classified, depending on the nature of their initial academic preparation and subsequent academic and/or professional engagement activities. Each school must document the classification for each faculty member in accordance with one of the following categories: (1) Scholarly Academic (SA), (2) Practice Academic (PA), (3) Scholarly Practitioner (SP), or (4) Instructional Practitioner (IP). Faculty who do not meet the school’s criteria within this framework are classified as Additional (A) faculty. Criteria for each of the four categories should align with the school’s mission, expected outcomes, and strategies, and should include the following essential elements: •	The combinations of academic preparation and/or professional experience required of faculty at the time of hiring, as well as the types of academic and/or professional development activities required of faculty for them to sustain their qualification status after they have been hired. •	How the school assigns priority and value to different continuing academic and professional engagement activities; how such assignments support its portfolio of SA, PA, SP, and IP faculty; and how this portfolio of faculty supports its mission, expected outcomes, and strategies. •	The qualitative standards the school requires for various, specified development activities and the ways that it assures the quality of these activities. •	The depth and breadth of academic and professional engagement that faculty members are expected to undertake within the normal AACSB review cycle in order to maintain their qualification status. A single set of criteria may be applied to all faculty resources. Alternatively, the school may also choose to vary criteria based on level of teaching (e.g., undergraduate vs. graduate) or role as relates to one’s contribution to the mission of the school. For example, a school may maintain one set of SA criteria for undergraduate faculty and a separate set of criteria for graduate or research faculty. This distinction is particularly relevant with respect to the higher level of intellectual contributions expected of graduate and research faculty. Standard 8 provides additional guidance in the area of intellectual contributions by level of faculty. Note that location or modality, in and of themselves, are not sufficient to maintain separate faculty qualifications criteria and would be inappropriate. Criteria for granting and for maintaining various qualifications for participating faculty who also hold significant administrative appointments (e.g., deans, associate deans, department heads/chairs, or center directors) in the business school may reflect these important administrative roles. That is, a school may maintain different faculty qualifications criteria for such administrators within the business school if they so choose. Note that it is inappropriate to confer SA status to an administrator without some level of accompanying ongoing activities with the spirit of what their own SA faculty are expected to be engaging in to be deemed “Scholarly Academics.” Title alone is not sufficient to confer qualification status. Administrators who cease administrative functions and return as faculty members would ordinarily be granted a reasonable amount of time to regain currency in teaching or research as needed and would maintain their faculty qualifications status during this transition time, after which he/she would be expected to be classified according to the school’s normal faculty qualifications criteria. The school may define what it considers reasonable transition time, but such transition time would normally not exceed three years. Below is additional guidance on each of these categories in terms of both definitions and the types of activities in which each type of faculty engages on an ongoing, sustained basis. (1)	Scholarly Academic (SA) faculty normally possess a terminal degree in a field related to their area of teaching. The standard specifically includes a PhD or DBA, MST, LLM, or JD, but other terminal degrees may also be appropriate as described below. Other terminal degrees may be appropriate for SA or PA status. For example, an MD teaching in a healthcare management program may be appropriately classified as SA or PA if the faculty member engages in ongoing sustained activities consistent with the school’s criteria for SA or PA classification. We envision a future environment where terminally qualified faculty outside of business are increasingly common as SA and PA faculty, and they bring a broad and rich perspective to business education in ways that truly accelerate innovation, foster engagement, and amplify the impact of business education. It is the closeness of the terminal degree to the faculty member’s field of teaching coupled with relevant ongoing activities in their field of teaching that establishes the appropriate faculty qualification status. The less related the terminal degree is to a faculty member’s field of teaching, the more important it is for that faculty member to demonstrate sustained, substantive academic and/or professional engagement to support currency and relevancy in their field of teaching and contributions to other mission components. In addition to producing peer- or editorial-reviewed publications, SA faculty will undertake a variety of academic engagement activities consistent with the faculty member’s role (e.g., junior or senior faculty) and the school’s mission, strategies, and expected outcomes to support maintenance of this status. Examples of academic engagement activities include the following: 	Participation in research workshops and/or academic conferences related to the faculty member’s field of teaching 	Relevant, active editorships with academic journals or other business publications 	Service on editorial boards or committees 	Validation of SA status through academic leadership positions, participation in recognized academic societies and associations, research awards, academic fellow status, invited presentations, etc. 	Significant participation in academic associations, professional standard-setting or policymaking bodies (2)	Practice Academic (PA) faculty normally possess a terminal degree in a field related to their area of teaching. PA faculty may undertake a variety of professional engagement activities to interact with business and management practice to support maintenance of this status. While schools may choose to include a publication requirement in their own faculty qualification criteria, Standard 3 does not require a PA faculty member to publish. Examples of professional engagement activities include the following: 	Consulting activities that are material in terms of time and substance 	Faculty internships 	Development and presentation of executive education programs 	Sustained professional work supporting qualified status 	Significant participation in business professional associations, professional standard-setting bodies, or policymaking bodies 	Practice-oriented intellectual contributions, as detailed in Standard 8 	Relevant, active service on boards of directors 	Documented continuing professional education experiences 	Participation in professional events that focus on the practice of business, management, and related issues 	Participation in other activities that place faculty in direct engagement with business or other organizational leaders (3)	Scholarly Practitioner (SP) faculty normally possess a master’s degree in a discipline related to their field of teaching. In limited cases, SP or IP status may be appropriate for individuals without master’s degrees if the depth, duration, sophistication, and complexity of their professional experience at the time of hiring outweighs their lack of master’s degree qualifications. In such cases, the school is expected to make its case for SP or IP status. Normally, at the time that a school hires an SP or IP faculty member, that faculty member’s professional experience is current, substantial in terms of duration and level of responsibility, and clearly linked to the field in which the person is expected to teach. The less related the initial professional experience is to the faculty member’s field of teaching, or the longer the time since the relevant experience occurred, the faculty member must demonstrate higher levels of sustained, substantive academic and/or professional engagement related to their field of teaching in order to maintain professional qualifications. A non-exhaustive list of academic and professional engagement activities an SP faculty member may engage in includes the following: 	Scholarly activities leading to the production of scholarship outcomes as documented in Standard 8 	Relevant, active editorships with academic, professional, or other business or management publications 	Validation of SP status through leadership positions in recognized academic societies, research awards, academic fellow status, invited presentations, etc. 	Development and presentation of continuing professional education activities or executive education programs 	Significant participation in academic associations, professional standard-setting bodies, or policymaking bodies (4)	Instructional Practitioner (IP) faculty may undertake a variety of professional engagement activities involving business and management practice to support maintenance of this status. A non-exhaustive list of professional engagement activities includes the following: 	Sustained professional work supporting IP status 	Documented professional certifications in their area of teaching 	Participation in other activities that place faculty in direct contact with business and other organizational leaders While the standard does not prescribe minimum ratios by degree program, location, and modality, the standard expects the school to have an appropriate blend of qualified faculty across these dimensions. Completion of Table 3-1: Faculty Qualifications For all AACSB tables (including Standard 3 tables), schools are expected to adhere to the template and should not make structural adjustments. The header of Table 3-1 should specify the normal academic year format or schedule being used (e.g., September 2020–June 2021). Shorter terms such as summer or intersession terms should be excluded from the academic year for these purposes. Table 3-1 should list all faculty contributing to the mission of the school, including the following faculty members: •	Participating and supporting faculty •	Graduate learners who are instructors of record with formal teaching responsibilities •	Faculty with significant administrative responsibilities, regardless of whether such administrators are teaching •	Faculty teaching prerequisite business courses in the accredited unit if not specifically excluded in the list below •	Faculty who are on short-term leave and who are expected to return to faculty should be included in the table and a footnote explanation provided •	Visiting faculty should also be included in the table and classified according to the criteria of the school they are visiting with respect to both faculty sufficiency and qualifications. Intellectual contributions from their home school would not be reflected in Table 8-1 unless supported by the school in which they are visiting. Normally, the determining factor for who is included in Table 3-1 is: Which individuals have primary engagement with the learner, regardless of the modality and method of delivery of the course. The instructional faculty members who have primary engagement with the learner, either directly or indirectly, must be reported in Table 3-1, regardless of whether they are full-time, adjuncts, or faculty contracted through a third party. Examples of indirect engagement with learner include engagement through the use of teaching assistants/tutors or through enhanced artificial intelligence. In the case of an individual who designs the course but does not have any subsequent engagement with learners, the individual would not be included in the table. Instead, it would be the individual(s) that have primary engagement with the learners who are included in the table. In the case of teaching assistants/tutors supporting a faculty member teaching large courses, the teaching assistants/tutors would not be included in the table. Schools using such models should document how the model supports high-quality academic programs. While a faculty member could technically meet the school’s criteria for more than one category (e.g., SA and PA), the faculty member should be reported in only one category. Table 3-1 should not include the following faculty members: •	For interdisciplinary programs, faculty teaching non-business courses. •	Faculty teaching courses or modules that service the general university population (for example accounting for nonbusiness majors).3 •	Lower-level business communications courses where basic oral and written communications is the primary content. •	Courses serviced outside the business school that are taught from the perspective of a non-business discipline (e.g., business law taught in the law school, economics taught in a college of arts and letters or a separate school of economics that is social science oriented, or information systems taught in the school of computing from a computer science perspective.) •	Non-business courses that are prerequisites to business taught from a non-business perspective, such as calculus and/or statistics courses serviced outside the business school, or foreign language classes.4 •	Faculty teaching in partner schools supporting a collaborative provision program that is deemed out of scope for the AACSB-accredited school.5 •	Faculty supporting any transfer credit such as advanced placement courses, dual credit courses through high school and university arrangements, courses transferred in through articulation agreements, or study abroad courses transferred in. •	Faculty members who are solely dedicated to the delivery of non-credit executive education programs, non-credit certificates, etc. For faculty who deliver both non- credit executive education and credit-bearing courses, the faculty member should be included in the tables with respect to the credit-bearing courses only. •	Faculty members who terminated employment with the school prior to the most recently completed regular academic year should not be included in Table 3-1. However, faculty who left mid-year for the most recent regular academic year of 3 If a faculty member is teaching both required business courses as well as general education courses, their teaching productivity would reflect only the hours of the required courses and not the general education courses. However, an individual's percent of time devoted to mission is unaffected by teaching general education courses. 4 Required statistics courses and economics courses taught within the business school are included in Table 3-1. 5 Refer to “Collaborative Provisions/Transfer Credit” in the front matter to the standards for partnership programs that are out of scope for AACSB. record (i.e., they left during the self-study year) may be included for the portion of the year they were a faculty member, with an appropriate footnote to denote that the faculty member has left. Percent of time devoted to mission should be adjusted accordingly. For example, a full-time faculty member who left midway through the self-study year would be reflected as 50 percent devoted to mission in Table 3-1. Faculty members who joined the school mid-year are similarly treated. For Table 8-1 purposes, it is not necessary to apportion the intellectual contributions portfolio for such faculty members; thus, the entire intellectual contributions portfolio is included. •	Teaching assistants or tutors who support an instructor of record by assisting in grading, test proctoring, tutoring, and conducting labs for learners. These individuals may be excluded as long as they are not functioning as the primary instructor. Calculating “Percent of Time Devoted to Mission” “Percent of time devoted to mission” reflects each faculty member’s contributions to the school’s overall mission during the period of evaluation. Reasons for less than 100 percent might include part-time employment, shared appointment with another academic unit, or other assignments that make the faculty member partially unavailable to the school. A full-time faculty member’s percent of time devoted to mission is normally 100 percent. For doctoral students who have formal teaching duties, the percent of time devoted to mission should reflect their teaching duties only, and not any other activities associated with their roles as a student, e.g., work on a dissertation. For example, a doctoral student who teaches one class over the normal academic year, and a part-time faculty member whose responsibilities are limited to the same level of activity, should be assigned the same percent of time devoted to mission. A faculty member teaching in more than one discipline may be listed multiple times, but the percent of time devoted to mission should be reflected proportionally in each discipline and should not be more than 100 percent. For part-time faculty, the expected percent is less than 100 percent and should reflect the amount of time devoted to the mission. If a school used a full-time equivalent (FTE) human resources system, then the FTE may be a reasonable approximation for percent of time devoted to mission. In the absence of an FTE system, the school should have a rational manner (e.g., total contracted hours, etc.) of assigning the percent to part-time faculty that is, as a best practice, agreed to by the peer review team well in advance of the report submission. The key is to determine, on a percentage basis, the amount of time a school considers a normal teaching load for a given semester. That amount is then applied to those who are less than full time to determine the percent of time that individual is considered “devoted to mission” for all of the duties that individual performs in a given semester. Sample Calculations of Percent of Time Devoted to Mission: The following are three sample calculations under the assumption a school has a 40/30/30 FTE model, meaning 40 percent of the faculty member’s time is devoted to research, 30 percent of their time is devoted to teaching, and 30 percent of their time is devoted to service. If an individual is assigned additional duties, this percentage would be added to the percentage devoted to teaching. •	Example 1: Faculty member teaches one 3-hour (expressed in student credit hours, or “SCH”) class per year and has no additional teaching, research, or service responsibilities. Standard teaching load is nine credit hours per semester, or 18 credit hours per year. The percent-of-time calculation is based on the standard teaching load for a full-time faculty member per year. Thus, the denominator in this example is 18 credit hours, while the numerator is the apportioned effort the school attributes to teaching—in this case 30%. Percent of time devoted to mission is 30%/18 credit hours = 1.67%/credit hour x 3 credit hours for a class = 5%. This is the number that would go in Table 3-1 under the appropriate faculty qualification cell. •	Example 2: Faculty member teaches one class per year and has 10% service assigned and no research expectations. Standard teaching load is 9 credit hours per semester, or 18 hours per academic year. Percent of time devoted to mission is 5% (same calculation as above) + 10 service% = 15%. This is the number that would go in Table 3-1 under the appropriate faculty qualification cell. •	Example 3: Faculty member teaches two classes per year and has no additional teaching, research, or service responsibilities. Standard teaching load is 12 credit hours per semester, or 24 hours per academic year. Percent of time devoted to mission is 30/24 = 1.25%/credit hour x 6 credit hours = 7.5%. This is the number that would go in Table 3-1 under the appropriate faculty qualification cell. Completion of Table 3-2: Deployment of Faculty by Qualification Status in Support of Degree Programs •	The school should provide an analysis of the deployment of SA, PA, SP, IP, and Additional faculty by degree program level (bachelor’s, master’s, doctoral). Bachelor’s degrees can be combined into one line; postgraduate degrees should be broken out by degree program. MBA programs may be combined into one line; however, where significant differences exist among types of MBA programs or target audiences, it is preferable to show these varying MBA programs broken out on separate lines. •	The school must complete Table 3-2 in the format provided in this document to demonstrate deployment of faculty resources across each degree program level. Deployment should be consistent with the school’s mission, expected outcomes, and strategies. Peer review teams may request more detail related to a discipline, program, delivery mode, and/or location. •	The school should provide information for the most recently completed regular academic year. Each cell represents the percentage of total teaching (whether measured by credit hours, contact hours, courses taught, or another metric appropriate to the school) for each degree program at each level, by faculty qualifications status. The sum across each row should total 100 percent. Provide a brief analysis that explains the deployment of faculty, as noted above, to mission, expected outcomes, and strategies. •	All cells should be formatted consistently and reflected as percentages (e.g., 40%). Faculty and Professional Staff Development The school should be able to produce upon request promotion and tenure policies (if applicable) for the various units of the school, as well as annual evaluation policies. One question of interest to the peer review team is whether such policies are clearly communicated and understood by the faculty and staff. Consistent with Standards 1 and 7, the school is expected to plan for and provide resources for assisting faculty in maintaining currency with current and emerging technology. This is especially important in areas in which technology is rapidly changing. In areas where doctoral students or other graduate learners have teaching responsibilities, the school should describe how it ensures the quality and preparedness of these learners for successful classroom experiences. This is particularly true for doctoral students, consistent with Standard 7. Development of both faculty and professional staff is also expected and may include internal or external training and upskilling as needed to remain current and support the school’s faculty and learners. Certifications such as the Certified Management & Business Educator (“CMBE”) credential offered by the Chartered Association of Business Schools for master teaching, provides the means for ongoing or continuous development as well as validating expertise. Additionally, the Higher Education Academy HEA Fellows program can be explored as a way to externally validate expertise in teaching. These are intended as examples that exist among a number of programs. While there is some overlap between Standards 3 and 7 with respect to the provision of teaching resources, the distinction is that Standard 3 lays out the expectation that appropriate training and technology, along with other resources needed for success in the classroom, are available, while Standard 7 is where the school describes how these resources have been employed to improve teaching effectiveness and impact of teaching. III.	Sample Tables University of Pirsig School of Business Table 3-1: Faculty Sufficiency and Qualifications Summary for September 2020–May 2021 (Re: Standard 3) Faculty Portfolio by Discipline	Faculty Sufficiency Related to Teaching (SCH, ECTS, Faculty Qualifications With Respect to Percent of Time Devoted to Mission Faculty Member Name (Please organize and list individually in sections reflecting each discipline.) Specialty Field Highest Degree, Year Earned Participating Faculty Teaching Productivity (P) Supporting Faculty Teaching Productivity (S)		Scholarly Academic (SA) Practice Academic (PA)	Scholarly Practitioner (SP)	Instructional Practitioner (IP)	Additional Faculty (A) Accounting		Degrees or majors are offered	Degrees or majors are not in this discipline ☒	offered in this discipline ☐ Bora, Byung-Ho	Accounting	PhD, 2012	480		MT, DT, RES	100					PhD in field; 3 PRJs; editorial board, member 1 PRJ Levin, Nathalie	Taxation	MST, 1986		450	UT				100		Active accounting practice; professional online tax seminar; leads college internship program Smith, Robert	Taxation	MST, 2015	675		UT	100					1 PRJ; 3 Conference presentations; 1 grant (NEXUS) Total Accounting			1155	450		200 (66.7%)	0	0	100 (33.3%)	0 Accounting Ratio			>= 60% requirement for P met (72%)		SA >= SA+PA+SP+IP >=	40% met (66.7%) 90% met (100%) Finance	Degrees or majors are offered in this discipline ☒	Degrees or majors are not offered in this discipline ☐ Hjalmar, Shinobu	Real Estate	PhD, 1995	360		ADM, UT, MT		100				PhD in field; Dept Chair; program development; Board of Directors(HSBC) Stone, Bob	Banking	MBA, 1990		100	MT				16.5		Former minister of finance, chairman of bank Tucker, Suzanne	Finance	PhD, 2011	420		DT, RES	100					PhD in field; 3 PRJs; editorial boards Total Finance			780	100		100 (46.2%)	100 (46.2%)	0	16.5 (7.6%)	0 Finance Ratio			>= 60% requirement for P met (88.6%)		SA >= 40% met (46.2%) SA+PA+SP+IP >= 90% met (100%) Business Law	Degrees or majors are offered in this discipline ☐	Degrees or majors are not offered in this discipline ☒ Scott, Christine	Business Law	LLM 1980		240	MT		25				Terminal degree, Practicing attorney, leader in Bar Association Zubar, Justin	Business Law	JD 2004	900		UT, MT	100					Terminal degree, Member of State Bar of TX and FL ; 3 PRJs Total Business Law			900	240		100 (80%)	25 (20%)	0	0	0 Business Law Ratio			>=60%require ment for P met (79%)		SA >=40% (80%) SA+PA+SP+IP >= 90% (100%) Marketing	Degrees or majors are offered	Degrees or majors are not in this discipline ☐	offered in this discipline ☒ Erasmos, Isa	Marketing Research	MBA, 2004	279		UT, MT, RES				50		MBA; full time work in field until 2018; 2 professional memberships Johnson, Sandy	Supply Chain	PhD, 2010	429		UT, MT		50				PhD in field; strategy consulting; Jones, Justine	Marketing	PhD, 1995	0	0	RES, ADM	100					Dean,3 PRJs; 2 conference presentations; Board of Advisors (American Marketing Association) Rabi, Osama	Marketing	MBA, 1987	738		UT, ADM			100			MBA; 1 PRJ; Industry Experience; Chair of Center for Consumer Behavior Research Total Marketing			1446	0		100 (33.3%)	50 (16.7%)	100 (33.3)%	50 (16.7%)	0 Marketing Ratio			>= 60% requirement for P met (100%)		SA >= 40% (33.3%) 4281 790		500 (53.1%)	175 (18.6%)	100 (10.6%)	166.5 (17.7%) 0 Overall Ratio			>= 75% requirement for P met (84.4%)		SA >= 40% met (53.1%) Faculty Sufficiency Indicators: •	Overall discipline guideline: P/(P+S) > 75% Faculty Qualifications Indicators: •	SA guideline: (SA)/(SA +PA + SP + IP +A) > 40% •	SA + PA + SP + IP guideline: (SA + PA + SP + IP)/(SA + PA + SP + IP + A) > 90% Table 3-2: Deployment of Faculty by Qualification Status in Support of Degree Programs September 2020–May 2021 Faculty percentage of teaching by program and degree level (using Student Credit Hours) Scholarly Academic (SA) % Practice Academic (PA) % Scholarly Practitioner (SP) % Instructional Practitioner (IP) % Additional (A) % Total % BS Commerce and Business Administration 23.2% 15.6% 25.4% 35.8% 100% MBA 33.6% 31.1% 0% 35.3% Doctoral Program Scholarly Academic	Practice Academic	Scholarly Practitioner	Instructional Practitioner Bachelor's Program Nathalie Levin				900 Robert Smith	675 Shinobu Hjalmar*		240 Isa Erasmos*				140 Sandy Johnson*		215 Osama Rabi			738 Total Bachelor's Program 675 455 738 1040 2908 Percent Bachelor's Program 0.0% 100.00% *Shinobu Hjalmar, Isa Erasmos, and Sandy Johnson teach at both the bachelor's level and in the MBA program. MBA Program Byung-Ho, Bora	360 Shinobu Hjalmar*		120 Christine Scott				240 Isa Erasmos*				139 Sandy Johnson*		214 Total MBA Program	360	334	0	379	0	1073 Percent MBA Program	33.6%	31.1%	0.0%	35.3%	0.0%	100.00% *Bora Byung-Ho, Shinobu Hjalmar, Isa Erasmos, and Sandy Johnson all teach at various degree levels. PhD program Byung-Ho, Bora	120 Thaddeus Thompson	420 Total PhD Program	540	0	0	0	0	540 Percent PhD Program	100.0%	0.0%	0.0%	0.0%	0.0%	100.00% LEARNER SUCCESS The four standards comprising Learner Success are designed to ensure that all types of learners benefit from the school’s educational process. The word “learner” is broader than “student” and encompasses not only students but all stakeholders who are acquiring knowledge and skills. Learners are generally acknowledged to be intellectually curious beyond the classroom. Standard 4: Curriculum Business schools provide education primarily through their curriculum. Each degree program, including curricular pieces or components that can aggregate to degree programs, is designed to provide learners with a distinct set of competencies. The knowledge and skills in these curricula should prepare learners for desired career outcomes and a lifelong learning mindset. There are definitive core competencies that a business school graduate with either a generalized or specialized degree should be expected to have. Learners have the expectation and right to access curriculum that is current and relevant. Curriculum should also be innovative, impactful in its education of graduates, and promote engagement in multiple contexts. Because technology is so impactful in business, Standard 4 specifically addresses the need for learners to be agile with current technologies and possess technological agility. Curriculum Content The primary objective of the standard is to ensure that the curriculum is properly managed and covers appropriate competencies. The peer review team will want to examine each degree program’s list of course offerings to ensure currency and relevancy. Curricula should address competencies that would normally be included in the type of degree program under consideration. Given the pace of change in business practice today, both knowledge and skill areas may be dynamic over time. Curriculum should be managed to ensure appropriate inclusion of technology. Schools are required to describe the types of current and emerging technologies with which learners are expected to graduate with competency, for each program level. The purpose of this requirement is to demonstrate that schools are providing learners with relevant technology competencies in line with what might be expected for business degree graduates. As an example, business graduates are generally expected to have a moderate or better level of competency with Microsoft Excel. Some business degrees may require competency in statistical software, programming software, or database software. The use of technology in degree programs is just one example of curricular currency. However, lack of use of relevant technologies in degree programs can provide an important signal that the curriculum is not up to date and relevant. Curriculum Management Curriculum should be managed to ensure that it remains current and relevant. The school should have governance that facilitates regular reviews of curricular content and assurance of learning (AoL) processes and outcomes with internal (faculty and staff) and external stakeholders (discussed in Standard 5). The peer review team can review the school’s governance structure to determine whether committees or task forces are in place related to curriculum updates and AoL. The peer review team should also ask about frequency of meetings of curriculum-related groups, and perhaps review minutes of these meetings if a concern exists, along with any other relevant documentation to ensure that the school has an active curriculum management process. Innovation, Experiential Learning, Lifelong Learning, and Societal Impact An innovative approach to curriculum incorporates elements of cutting-edge content, creative and experimental pedagogies, and variation in delivery or processes. A school might demonstrate that it delivers innovative curricular content by creating new courses, new degree programs, or new curricular and co-curricular initiatives. Examples might include adding topics or coursework in new topical areas or offering interdisciplinary courses. Other examples might involve curricular requirements for learners to acquire proficiency in a programming language or with an emerging technology. With respect to pedagogy, innovation can be expressed and documented where faculty are experimenting with different approaches to teaching. Examples would be initiatives to promote inclusive pedagogy and approaches that recognize different learner styles and paces of learning. Delivery modes are part of the pedagogy process and can include use of technology and online courses and varied classroom configurations and processes, such as a learner- centered classroom setting or “flipped” classrooms. Curriculum should include experiential learning opportunities, including those that facilitate the connection between academic and professional experiences. The peer review team should be provided with examples of experiential learning opportunities that might include field trips, guest speakers, and professional development workshops. Curriculum should foster a lifelong learning mindset. This can be demonstrated through myriad ways, including but not limited to learner engagement with professional associations, assignments that reach beyond what is taught in the classroom or a given course, and demonstration of facility with emerging technology beyond what is required in the classroom. Learners should not just be prepared for their first jobs. While learning current practices and technologies is important, the overall purpose of the education should be to equip learners to continue their learning. This is difficult to assess, but the report should include reference to how the school develops learner intellectual curiosity and critical thinking and helps them take ownership of their learning. There are many ways that curricular offerings can incorporate societal well-being and foster and support learners’ ability to have societal impact. Examples of curricular components would be specialized finance courses or class sessions that are dedicated to or cover environmental, social, or corporate governance (“ESG”) investing; courses that have learners complete consulting projects for nonprofit organizations or provide services such as Voluntary Income Tax Assistance; and courses or class sessions that cover sustainability. Engagement Curriculum should facilitate and encourage active student engagement in learning in all modalities. In addition to time on tasks related to readings, course participation, knowledge development, projects, and assignments, learners engage in experiential and active learning designed to be inclusive for a diverse student body, and to improve skills and the application of knowledge in practice. Curriculum facilitates and encourages regular, meaningful learner-to-learner and learner-to-faculty academic and learner-to-industry professional engagement. Successful teaching and learning demand high levels of such engagement. The peer review team should seek examples of engagement across all modalities. Examples of meaningful learner-to-faculty engagement include: •	Synchronous delivery of lectures or other course content. This may include synchronous instructor-led sessions on specific topics in line with the course content. •	Providing personalized written and/or verbal feedback directly to learners on assignments, quizzes, tests, and other assessment activities. •	Holding regular office hours of a reasonable length of time and meeting with learners. •	Engaging regularly with learners within the course platform in any number of substantial ways. Opportunities for learner-to-faculty engagement should be provided to learners on a routine basis throughout the course and should be primarily initiated by the faculty member. Note that delivering lectures with all other engagement provided by teaching assistants or other support personnel does not align with the spirit and intent of the standards. Regular, meaningful learner-to-learner and learner-to-faculty engagement is a hallmark of an AACSB accredited school. With respect to learner-to-learner engagement, the peer review team might expect that learners interact with each other outside of class through student organization activities, through applied projects and service learning opportunities, and other small and large group activities. Standard 5: Assurance of Learning (AoL) Quality faculty, a thoughtful and relevant curriculum, and support for teaching are all input contributions to learner success. However, to ensure that learners are prepared for careers or further study, it is necessary to assess competencies through a combination of direct and indirect assurance of learning (AoL) measures. Competencies include knowledge, skills and abilities and are a demonstration of learner ability to accomplish tasks. Thus, they are more outcome-focused and broader-based than learning goals. It is important to know whether graduates are satisfied with their program of study, prepared for a world of work or further study, and successful in their future endeavors. The primary goal of AoL is to ensure competency or proficiency with business skills and knowledge. Direct measures are useful because they provide evidence that learners can demonstrate competency; however, indirect measures can be useful in assessing whether a curriculum is accomplishing desired objectives. Philosophy of AoL AoL is not intended to be a check-the-box, compliance exercise. Such an approach deprives a school and its learners of a real opportunity to live the spirit of continuous improvement for the degree programs covered by AACSB accreditation. Peer review teams should not approach AoL from a purely compliance mindset. Rather, they should keep in mind that they are determining whether the school is meeting the spirit and intent of Standard 5 and showing continuous improvement, and that the learners are substantially meeting stated learning competencies. The AoL standard is principles- based and is meant to provide guidance in conducting direct and indirect assessment of learner competency. It is AACSB’s position that more complexity, a greater number of competency goals, or assessing every competency every year does not make an AoL process better. It is the systematic process, informed by the school’s mission and strategies and resulting in meaningful improvements in curriculum and learning, that defines a strong and mature AoL system. One of the essential elements of AoL is faculty and key stakeholder involvement. It cannot be emphasized enough that AoL is not about one or a few members of the faculty or staff doing most of the work. AoL should be faculty driven, with the majority of faculty involved at some level. Faculty in whose courses assurance of learning competencies are measured have a particularly high responsibility to ensure that the learning goals are appropriate and meaningful, and that student learning is enhanced through the AoL process. However, the faculty as a whole should be familiar with the school’s AoL processes and should be involved in reviewing and providing feedback on a continuous improvement basis. External stakeholders such as advisory councils can be invaluable assets in helping a school determine whether they have the right competencies specified for a given degree program. AACSB strongly encourages such input. Essential Elements The essential elements for alignment with Standard 5 emanate from the language in the standard and the interpretive guidance aligned with the standard and are as follows: •	A well-documented plan identifying competency goals for each degree program and describing where and when each competency is assessed. •	A process that involves broad faculty and other key stakeholder involvement. •	Competencies measured systematically (i.e., at regular pre-established intervals), with curriculum improvements emanating directly from the AoL process. •	A combination of direct and indirect assessment of learning across all degree programs, but each degree program may use either direct or indirect assessment or a combination of both; mission, strategy, and competency goals are factors in selecting the best approach. •	Competency goals consonant with the school’s mission, expected outcomes, and strategies are established for each degree program. •	Demonstration that degree competency goals have been substantially met, or in cases where goals are not being met, the school has instituted efforts to eliminate the discrepancy. Direct vs. Indirect Measures Both direct and indirect measures of assessment are expected to be used within the portfolio of programs. Any individual program may rely on either direct or indirect measures, or a combination of both. However, the peer review team will expect to see both measures across the portfolio of all degree programs. In some cases, indirect assessments may have a more comprehensive impact on curriculum. For example, a survey of learners returning from internship experiences or of internship employers might indicate that learners are lagging in their presentation skills compared with interns from other institutions. The standard does not prescribe frequency or type of indirect assessment. Some schools may have regularly scheduled alumni surveys, while others may convene focus groups on an ad hoc basis. Indirect assessments might incorporate graduation and alumni surveys, feedback from employers, focus groups, interviews, and other advice from stakeholders. If direct measures are used solely for a particular program, then it is expected that there would be multiple competency goals with regular patterns of assessment, feedback, and curricular adjustment. If indirect assessment is the only AoL measure used in a program, it is expected that there would be multiple stakeholders engaged in providing feedback in systematic fashion, on a regularly scheduled basis. The school should be prepared to provide its rationale for whichever approach it employs within respective degree programs. Determining the Right Amount of Data to Collect and Analyze One observation with respect to AoL is that schools sometimes gather data on every course, every semester, and on every learner. This practice is not the intent of AoL and is not appropriate. Sampling is entirely appropriate, keeping in mind the principles of sampling related to gathering a representative sample across the sample frame. While a robust AoL system will have multiple competency goals for each degree program, AACSB does not prescribe an optimal number of competencies for a given degree program; Competency goals should focus on what is most important for learners to comprehend or possess. The school should create the AoL system across programs, with a combination of direct and indirect measures, that best supports its mission. Because the standard is principles-based, it is helpful to keep the following clarifications in mind with respect to what the standard is not intended to do: •	Specify the number of competency goals a school should adopt. •	Require that each competency goal must be assessed solely with either direct or indirect measures of AoL. •	Prescribe that learning objectives must be included underneath each competency goal (though a school can choose to do so if they do desire). •	Prescribe how many times a competency goal must be assessed in order to constitute “regular” assessment. •	Describe specifically what a school needs to do to have a “mature” AoL system. •	Require formal AoL processes for components smaller than a degree. •	Require formal AoL processes for non-degree executive education. Learning Objectives or Not? How schools incorporate operational definitions is a school choice. Many schools choose to include learning objectives under each competency goal in direct assessment as the operationalization of competencies. Similar to competency goals, if a school chooses to include learning objectives under each competency goal, there is no optimal number of learning objectives; however, as a guideline, schools that use competency goals tend to have one to three learning objectives for each competency goal. This guideline may vary in practice. An alternative way to incorporate operational definitions is to write competency goals that contain specific and measurable components embedded within the goal. Either way, in a system of direct assessment, competency goals are typically measured twice in a five-year cycle with improvements launched between the two measurement cycles in order to facilitate the curriculum improvement. Closing the Loop This terminology has created some confusion due to inconsistent interpretations. Simply put, AACSB interprets closing the loop to mean that a school shows how curriculum was improved as a result of the assurance of learning process. Specifically, data from the second measure allows faculty, a peer review team, or other engaged stakeholders, to judge whether the curriculum improvements that were driven by the first round of data/results have been effective in helping students learn and/or perform better. Schools typically “close the loop” at least once in their accreditation cycle for each competency goal. A commonly repeated phrase that is a misconception is that schools must “close the loop twice.” This misconception appears to be a misinterpretation related to the fact that schools commonly assess competency goals twice in a normal accreditation cycle. Curriculum review and revision should occur routinely and systematically and be informed by the AoL process. Because curriculum changes emanate from a multitude of sources (e.g., external stakeholder input, university or school strategic choices, financial or competitive drivers, etc.), Standard 5 does require schools to identify the specific curriculum changes that were made directly as a result of their AoL process and how student learning was improved as a result of AoL. If process changes were made as a result of AoL (e.g., the school decides to measure learning outcome in a different course), these are important improvements that would also be captured in Table 5-1 for initial schools or elsewhere for continuous improvement review schools and indicated with a “P” for process change. Other AoL Regulators and Quality Assurance Organizations Many institutions are accredited by organizational entities other than AACSB. In some cases, these accreditors require assessment processes similar to the AoL requirements of AACSB. For AACSB purposes, it is the “Essential Elements” as listed above that are paramount, whether those are created solely for AACSB, or emanate from a process created for a different regulator. Direct substitution of a regional or country regulator is appropriate only where the process meets all of AACSB’s “Essential Elements” for AoL. For example, an assurance of learning process focused on the major, as opposed to the degree level, would not be directly substitutable but could be built upon and leveraged for AoL purposes at the degree level. When relying on a system developed for a regional or national regulatory system, gaps from AACSB-required essential elements should be identified and filled and the school is expected to tell its assurance of learning story within the AACSB framework. Competency-Based Education Competency-based education (CBE) is an outcomes-based approach to earning a college credential. CBE is commonly equated with prior-learning assessment (PLA) in which learning that occurs outside of the traditional classroom is evaluated for credit toward a degree. While PLA is considered to be one type of CBE, another major type of CBE is credit awarded through project-based direct assessment. The standard indicates that CBE should reflect a small percentage of the total academic program. This refers to PLA and not CBE based on project-based direct assessment of the mastery of concepts for a course. This distinction between CBE based on PLA and CBE based on direct assessment is important in the context of this standard. In the case of direct assessment CBE, there is no limitation in terms of credit earned in this manner. The school must demonstrate that CBE programs are of the same quality and rigor as its traditional degree programs. Microlearning Credentials and Non-Degree Executive Education Microlearning credentials are certificates, badges, executive education courses, or clusters of courses offered that normally do not lead to degrees. AACSB standards expect that these types of credentials should be reviewed for quality; however, a formal AoL systematic process with competency goals in each program is not required. The objective of this standard is to ensure that all educational offerings of the school are of the quality commensurate with the school’s mission. The standard indicates that non-degree executive education should be reviewed for quality if it exceeds five percent of the school’s total annual resources. In recognition that client feedback and program sustainability provide some measures of AoL for this area, this quality review need not entail a comprehensive combination of direct and indirect assessment measures. Similar to the assessment of other non-degree offerings, the review should ensure that the executive education is of a quality commensurate with the school’s mission and degree programs. Note as a reminder that Table 5-1 is mandatory for schools in the initial accreditation process for every program that is in scope for AACSB purposes. Such schools should complete this table to the to the best of their ability and submit it to the Initial Accreditation Committee. For example, recognizing that the assessment system is likely in the process of being implemented, schools seeking initial accreditation should provide approximate dates for which assessment milestones will be achieved (e.g., June 2022 first round of data collection, July- August 2022 analysis of data, Sept. 2022 second round of data collection, etc.). The table is optional for schools in the continuous improvement review (CIR) process, but many of these schools and teams have found this table to be helpful in reporting their AoL results. AoL is reported at the degree program level as opposed to the major level. For example, a school with one BBA program with 10 majors would have one corresponding table. Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) Assessment Plan and Results for Most Recently Completed Accreditation Cycle Results Improvements Identify whether process (P) or curriculum (C) (Date changes were made) Communication Skills—Oral	75%	Oral presentation	MGT 400	Years 1,3	Year 1: 68% Year 3: 80%	Established new mandatory communications class for juniors (C) (Year 2) Communication Skills—Written	75%	Research memo	MG 400	Years 2,4	Year 2: 52%	Established writing lab (C) Year 4: 60%	(Year 3) Updated rubric to provide additional detail to ensure consistent measurement across faculty (P) (Year 3) Technical	Scores at or	Standardized	Online,	Annually	Scores	Added modules in Business	above the	test	supervised	in senior	above the	logistics and supply chain Knowledge	national			year	national	in year 2, as that is average in each				average in	where the weaknesses discipline				each	were observed in our discipline	marketing learners. except	Scores improved in years marketing	3 and 4. We are (see	continuing to monitor (C) separate summary) Indirect Measures - none Master of Cybersecurity Improvements Identify whether process (P) or curriculum (C) (Date changes were made) Direct Measures - none Technical	An average of 6	Employer	With all	Survey is	6.6/7.0	Two areas of deficiency knowledge in	on a 7-point	satisfaction	employers	conducted		were noted in our survey: cybersecurity,	Likert scale on	survey	who have	every		the area of digital including	employer		hired our	other year;		forensics was noted as a demonstrated	satisfaction		cybersecurity	Last		weakness, as well as success in post-	survey		graduates in	measured		issues regarding cloud graduate			the past five	in year 3		computing security. As a employment			years	of our		result of this feedback, accreditati		we added these topics on cycle		into the curriculum and are currently focusing on this area more heavily. (C) The primary competency goal is the technical proficiency of our learners who graduate with this degree. To measure the technical proficiency of our learners, we conduct a survey of our Master of Cybersecurity employers every three years to determine satisfaction measures with those who hire our learners. We last conducted this survey in year 3 of this accreditation cycle. Satisfaction was measured at a 6.6 on a 7-point Likert scale. Of the 30 people who have graduated with this degree, 90% are employed in the field of cybersecurity. Complete survey results are available upon request. Standard 6: Learner Progression The desired outcome from a business school’s degree and non-degree programs is learner success, broadly defined. Positive outcomes are dependent on inputs and processes apart from the curriculum. Admissions processes should be in place that ensure a learner population with diversity of all kinds, consistent with the school’s mission, that is capable of academic progress toward completion with the potential to obtain desired outcomes such as further graduate studies or career placement. Professional development programs and extracurricular programs are also highly valued components in learner progression. Admissions, Progress, Degree Completion, and Career Development Support Institutions generally collect, monitor, and report data regarding demographic composition of incoming learner populations, learner retention, and graduation rates. In many cases, these data will be available at an institution level, though the accredited unit may also collect, monitor, and report these data. If learners are admitted to the university and there are no separate admission requirements for the AACSB accreditation unit, these data will be appropriate. If there are policies and procedures at the unit level, they should be documented. The criteria for admission should be compatible with the school’s mission and consistently applied. Information about admission requirements should be publicly available. Programs, policies, and practices should be in place to support learners as they advance toward degree completion. The mission of schools may vary widely with respect to the learners they admit. The peer review team will want to know that the school appreciates the composition of their learner population and supports them in their journey toward graduation. Demographic data that should be reviewed normally include the following for the incoming class, for learners at various levels of degree completion where appropriate, and for graduates: •	Diversity statistics •	Age ranges and mean/median •	Proportion of first-generation learners (if available) •	Average standardized test scores •	High school or preparatory school GPA •	Professional experience Data about attrition and degree completion are useful but should be supplemented with information about support services, such as those available for learners with disabilities or remedial needs. A school that accepts learners with lower GPAs and test scores might be expected to assist those learners in transitioning to college or university study. Schools that accept a large percentage of first-generation learners may need orientation programming to prepare the learners for their course of study. Graduate programs might include learner coaching and professional development. Counseling and advising are an important part of learner progression to ensure that learners are directed toward programs that best reflect their interests and talents. In addition to maintaining policies and programs intended to attract a diverse set of learners, the school should have programs and policies in place to ensure that learners from underrepresented populations thrive and succeed. Such programs may take a variety of forms, and a best practice is to evaluate the effectiveness of such programs over time. Ultimately, the rate of degree completion and the successful placement of graduates, whether in a career or program of further study, can validate that the appropriate admissions and processes are in place to ensure learner success. Academic Program Quality Post-Graduation Success The most common metric of post-graduation success is the attainment of a job in the field of study; however, AACSB recognizes that the world is changing, and many learners pursue alternative paths following graduation. A school is encouraged to provide metrics that capture the range of activities in which learners are engaging post- graduation that position them for success. Care should be taken by the peer review team to align these activities with the school’s mission and the abilities of the learner population. Accreditation is concerned with the difference or added value the school makes in the learner’s educational transformation. As an example, a school that has highly selective admissions standards might expect to place those learners in careers or graduate schools that are similarly highly selective and of high rank in quality; however, another school focused on first-generation learners as a vital part of its mission may have a completely different placement strategy that showcases the transformation of their learners. There are always nuances around successful outcomes and placement, which the peer review team should consider. As an example, examination of average graduate salaries will vary depending on whether most learners enter top-tier finance or consulting firms or go to work for nonprofit organizations or entrepreneurial startups. Schools may prefer to analyze and report any employment outcomes by categories, reflecting different career paths and/or types of learners, such as first-generation learners. The standard recognizes that some institutions do not collect or are unable to collect data regarding post-graduate career placement. As an example, some schools have a high percentage of international learners. While data on these learners may be difficult to collect, the school should demonstrate that these learners have acquired added value from their business degree programs. Schools may provide evidence such as job acceptance rates and case examples of successful graduates; however, schools should report outcomes that represent typical graduates, not just the most successful. The expectation of evidence should be aligned with mission and country or regional norms on data availability. Standard 7: Teaching Effectiveness and Impact Business school faculty produce three primary outputs: teaching, scholarship, and service. Standard 7 concerns impactful teaching. The direct outcome from teaching is successful learners, which are covered elsewhere in standards related to learner success. However, that success is dependent on teachers who are prepared, current, and pedagogically astute. This standard is meant to ensure that the school provides development activities and has evaluation systems to promote teaching effectiveness. Teaching Effectiveness and Faculty Preparedness The peer review team will typically review materials and policies related to hiring, promoting, and maintaining qualified educators. The school should describe the current teaching and learning strategy, together with major initiatives to maintain and improve performance and impact. The school should demonstrate that resources to maintain effective pedagogy in the relevant discipline are available to all faculty. The peer review team would, for example, expect to see formal evaluation policies for both participating and supporting faculty, as well as orientation programs available to ensure effective teaching for all faculty. Institutions frequently anchor on just one teaching evaluation metric. This standard expects the use of a broad array of measures and sources to assess teaching quality and effectiveness. Such examples may include, but are not limited to, peer review of teaching, learner evaluation, and faculty professional development. Specific documents, governance, resources, or processes related to teaching effectiveness that may be reviewed are: •	Hiring policies that demonstrate that new faculty are qualified to teach •	Hiring policies and practices that seek to attract a diverse faculty •	Faculty orientation programs that include teaching •	Availability of teaching mentoring •	School or university center for teaching and/or access to other programs designed to enhance teaching •	Teaching evaluation policies and procedures (multi-measure) •	Promotion and tenure standards related to teaching •	Teaching development activities (e.g., pedagogy workshops, pedagogy grants, sending faculty to teaching conferences, classroom visitation and feedback) •	Policies and practices to ensure faculty employ inclusive pedagogy •	Policies, practices, development activities, and dedicated resources to ensure faculty are current with appropriate technologies •	Resources available to faculty to maintain discipline expertise •	Recognition practices for outstanding teachers (e.g., awards) •	Examples of professional engagement of faculty •	Office hour policies and any other policies or practices promoting learner- faculty engagement •	Opportunities for faculty to participate in high-quality international conferences of disciplines or in highly regarded global academic organizations Faculty currency may be assessed through analysis of curricular offerings and inspection of select course syllabi. For example, does the school offer courses in current or potential future topics such as disruptive technologies, cybersecurity, design thinking, artificial intelligence, or data analytics? The peer review team may review the composition of faculty teaching some of these forward-thinking courses to determine if they are full-time faculty or if the more current topic courses are staffed with primarily supporting faculty. While supporting faculty may be effective in their delivery of highly relevant current or emerging topics and technologies, the school should take care not to rely solely on supporting faculty to do so. Core permanent faculty are charged with remaining current in their field, as well. Traditional courses and syllabi should also be current and may be reviewed to assess currency and relevancy of assigned readings, for example. Teaching Impact The impact of outstanding teaching can be difficult to assess, though there can be output signals of teaching effectiveness. Many schools offer graduation or outcome surveys that assess learner satisfaction. The ability of a school to attract highly qualified learners and boast of robust enrollment might be an input measure of teaching impact to the extent that the school has a reputation for high-quality teaching. Alumni are an excellent source of input regarding teaching impact. Talented teachers often disseminate their teaching knowledge and skills at seminars, through blogs and other social media outlets, by writing textbooks, and in workshops. The peer review team can look for these types of outputs as a reference for teaching impact. There may be examples of thought leadership through the scholarship of teaching and learning, which also reflect teaching impact. The two standards comprising Thought Leadership, Engagement, and Societal Impact are designed to ensure the school is making a significant difference through its thought leadership and engagement with external stakeholders. Standard 8: Impact of Scholarship All business schools are expected to engage in the creation and dissemination of high- quality impactful knowledge that is aligned with their missions. The outcome sought from these intellectual contributions is to impact the theory, practice, and/or teaching of business. The standards seek to elevate impact of intellectual contributions over a simple count of, for example, peer reviewed journal articles, and we encourage schools to incorporate a demonstration of impact into their assessments of quality of intellectual contributions for all faculty. This is the case whether the school is teaching- or research- intensive, with the difference being the types and volume of intellectual contributions, the stakeholders for whom they are intended, and the degree of impact that results. Schools are also expected to have a societal impact through their intellectual contributions and engagement in thought leadership with external non-academic stakeholders. Overview In this standard the aim is for the school to describe its research strategy, how research is organized and supported, and the outputs and outcomes that result. Recognizing the heterogeneity of schools, the importance of alignment of the intellectual portfolio with the mission, expected outcomes, and strategy of the school is emphasized. The standard also requires an assessment of the quality and impact of the school’s scholarship, including societal impact. Schools are also required to outline their area(s) of thought leadership and how they are progressing against their impact aspiration. Aspiration The movement to explicitly focus on thought leadership and societal impact is new in these standards. Further, schools have different missions, are in different contexts, and are at different stages in their development. Recognizing these factors, the standards require the school to identify its thought leadership aspiration appropriate to its mission and context, to evaluate its progress toward achieving its aspiration, and to identify its plans in this arena for the next five years. The same guidelines exist for societal impact. In Standard 1 the school identifies its aspiration for having a positive impact on society. In this standard the school analyzes and evaluates how it is progressing against the aspiration through its intellectual contributions, as well as its plans for the next five years. Completion of Table 8-1 Table 8-1 should present the intellectual contributions of faculty for the five years leading up to and including the self-study year. For example, if School A's visit is in February 2025 and its normal academic year runs from September to June, Table 8-1 will capture the intellectual contributions of faculty for the period of September 2019 to June 2024, including and ending with the self-study year. Publications after this date would be counted in the next accreditation cycle. In Table 8-1 the school should provide a count of the number of intellectual contributions produced by the faculty members employed in the most recently completed regular academic year and aggregated by discipline. The counts in the “portfolio” section should be the same as the counts in the “types” section of the table. The number of contributions must represent a non-duplicated count for co-authored publications. The count identifies the intellectual contributions for the most recently completed regular accreditation cycle, produced by faculty who were employed in the most recently completed regular academic year; therefore, as a general rule, it is the faculty included in Table 3-1 whose intellectual contributions are included in Table 8-1, with the following notable exceptions, which are not included in Table 8-1: •	Contract lecturers who are employed only to teach6 •	Visiting faculty/adjuncts whose research is designated to and/or resourced by another school7 Table 8-1 (A) Intellectual Contributions Table 8.1 (A) has three main components for counting intellectual contributions: category of intellectual contributions, types of intellectual contributions, and percentage of faculty producing intellectual contributions. All columns for each component are required to be completed. •	Portfolio of Intellectual Contributions The school is to categorize intellectual contributions based on whether they are basic or discovery scholarship, applied or integrative/application scholarship, or teaching and learning scholarship. This categorization provides summary measures that are useful for the school when discussing alignment of intellectual contributions with mission, expected outcomes, and strategy. •	Types of Intellectual Contributions The standard requires intellectual contributions to also be categorized according to level of peer review or subject matter expert review that occurs for the given item. A wide 6 While the intellectual contributions of contract lecturers who are employed only to teach are not included in Table 8-1, their intellectual contributions are “countable” for purposes of faculty qualification status in Table 3-1. 7 Ibid with respect to visiting faculty and adjuncts. variety of examples exist and could include, but are not limited to, the following (note that these are shown alphabetically, not in order of importance): 	articles in newspapers 	articles in peer-reviewed journals 	articles in professional publications 	books 	case studies 	competitive research grant awards 	contributions arising from membership of review panels for national or international research organizations 	contributions as an editorial board member 	editorial contributions 	invited presentations 	invited showcase or keynote 	oversight contributions for discipline or professional organizations 	peer-reviewed academic proceedings 	peer-reviewed professional proceedings 	policy documents 	practitioner books 	reports from consulting and projects 	research grants 	scholarly books 	technologies for utilization 	textbooks •	Percentage of Faculty Producing Intellectual Contributions The final two columns of Table 8-1 provide measures of the degree to which participating and full-time equivalent (FTE) faculty are involved in the production of intellectual contributions. The first is the percentage of participating faculty producing intellectual contributions. This is measured as a percentage of head count. The second is the percentage of total FTE producing intellectual contributions. Both columns must be completed. •	Sample Calculation of Percentage of Faculty Producing Intellectual Contributions Head Count	Faculty Member	P or S	ICs	FTE 1	Faculty A	P	Yes	1.0 2	Faculty B	P	Yes	1.0 3	Faculty C	P	Yes	1.0 4	Faculty D	P	Yes	1.0 5	Faculty E	P	Yes	.8 6	Faculty F	P	Yes	.8 7	Faculty G	P	No	.8 8	Faculty H	S	Yes	.2 9	Faculty I	S	No	.2 10	Faculty J	S	No	.2 Percentage of participating faculty producing ICs=85.7% (6/7) Percentage of total full time equivalent producing ICs=82.9% (5.8/7) Table 8-1 (B) Alignment with Mission The school should describe how its intellectual contributions connect to and support the mission of the school. For example, a school with a very applied mission may produce a large quantity of white papers that are of value for business or policymakers. Here the school may also identify intellectual contributions produced by units within the school or by the school itself. Table 8-1 (C) Quality of Intellectual Contributions The school should describe and justify the measures it uses to analyze the quality of its intellectual contributions. These can be quantitative measures (e.g., number or percentage of publications in highly ranked journals or number of opinion pieces in high-quality newspapers or social media outlets) and can incorporate trend analysis as well as overall measures. There can also be qualitative measures that identify some significant exemplars of quality from within the portfolio. Validation of the quality of intellectual contributions includes the traditional academic or professional pre- publication peer review, but may also encompass other forms of validation, such as online post-publication peer reviews, ratings, surveys of or feedback from users, research or publication awards, fellowships, media citations, etc. A school is expected to have quality intellectual contributions produced by all of its disciplines. The school should evaluate to what extent the quality of the portfolio is at the level it seeks and identify the plans in place for developing or augmenting the quality of the portfolio in the next five years. Table 8.1 (D) Impact of Intellectual Contributions The impact of intellectual contributions is separated into two parts. The first part (i) of impact is concerned with the difference made or innovations fostered by intellectual contributions, for example what has been changed, accomplished, or improved relative to the theory, practice and/or teaching of business. The school should describe and justify the measures that it uses to analyze the impact of its intellectual contributions. These should be both quantitative and qualitative to provide the peer review team with evidence of the impact. Impact may be demonstrated by, but is not limited to, the following: •	Peer recognition of the originality, scope, and/or significance of intellectual contributions •	Editorial board recognition of the originality, scope, and/or significance of the work •	The applicability and benefits of the new knowledge to the theory, practice, and/or teaching of business •	Evidence of the influence of the intellectual contribution on professional practice, professional standards, legislative processes, and outcomes or public policy •	The usefulness and/or originality of new or different understandings, applications, and insights resulting from the creative work •	The breadth, value, and persistence of the use and impact of the creative work •	The originality and significance of the creative work to learning, including the depth and duration of usefulness •	Research awards and recognition (e.g., selection as a fellow of an academic society) •	Adoptions and citations of the creative work, including its impact on the creative and intellectual work of others •	Evidence in the work of leadership and team-based contributions to the advancement of knowledge The second area (ii) of impact is exemplars of the societal impact of a school’s intellectual contributions. Possible impacts from these include: •	Contributions to major world issues, such as those identified by the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals •	Effects on business development •	Improved financial performance of organizations •	Contribution to business creation •	Improved health and safety outcomes •	Improvement in the brand and/or image of an organization, industry, or profession •	Examples of co-creation of knowledge with external stakeholders •	Examples of commercialization outcomes •	Examples of involvement in new venture creation •	Contributions through membership on boards and government bodies •	Examples of shaping community debate on issues of importance •	Examples of contributions to policy development for local, regional, national, or international public-sector organizations •	Outline of “pathways to impact” developed and the anticipated results from these •	Projects initiated or leading with external non-academic stakeholders •	Contract research or consultancy projects with private and public sector •	Examples of changes to business practice arising from thought leadership engagement •	Examples of public-sector policy changed or impacted by engagement with the school It is important to note that, while addressing societal issues can be achieved by business school researchers alone, there are also many occasions where impact in this area results from collaboration between business researchers and those from other disciplines. This interdisciplinary work is highly encouraged and should be reported, with the contribution of the business school, and/or its researchers, clearly identified. The school makes explicit the connection between an intellectual contribution, or a set of intellectual contributions, and the impact that activity has on society. This requires presentation of exemplars demonstrating the impact of specific contributions or groups of contributions. The school also undertakes an evaluation of progress over the previous five years against its aspiration for societal impact to date and its plans for the next five years. Thought Leadership All AACSB-accredited schools are expected to be thought leaders in an area consistent with their missions. Thought leadership can emanate from the scholarship produced by a school and/or its engagement activities with external stakeholders. Thought leadership can be the result of a unit’s collective effort. For example, a department in the school may run regional, national, or international academic conferences or industry/academic colloquiums. The school may produce a peer-reviewed academic journal or have a case study clearinghouse. The standards recognize that thought leadership is an evolutionary state and that schools grow and develop their reputation of thought leadership over time. Below are some examples of the thought leadership orientation of business schools. They are drawn from each of the three AACSB regions—Americas; Asia Pacific (AP); and Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA)—but are not intended to be representative. The names of the schools have been removed, and a brief comment on the type of institution each is in as well as their general location is provided. These examples are not intended to be followed or copied by schools; rather, they provide insight as to what “thought leadership” for a business school may entail. 1.	Top-ranked European business school with undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral offerings and a global-scale focus (EMEA) While the school has many research centers, there are two areas of thought leadership that stand out. The first area is “customer insight,” where the school focuses on purchasing behavior and purchasing decisions. Topics range from behavioral branding, design, and product development to brand and emotion. The second area is “entrepreneurship and innovation,” where the school researches and provides advice to firms on managing the corporate cycle from startup to business model development and innovation, as well as succession planning and corporate exit. 2.	Graduate School in Asia with a strong Asian focus (AP) “Analytics, computing, and complex systems” is a key area of thought leadership for the school. The focus is on helping industry, government, and business innovate by providing capabilities in artificial intelligence and complex systems modeling in various research and development models. This is facilitated by bringing together cross- disciplinary teams of data scientists and data engineers alongside business academics. 3.	A medium-sized business school, drawing learners from throughout the U.S., with an equal emphasis on teaching and research built on a foundation of experiential learning (Americas) The school’s main area of thought leadership expertise is “launching, supporting, and growing small business.” It is sought after by business, the local community, and local government, and contributes research in the startup and entrepreneurship areas. 4.	A school in a research-intensive comprehensive university with undergraduate, postgraduate, and doctoral offerings (AP) The school has two key areas of thought leadership. The first is “predictive analytics” to inform social policy. The emphasis here is on using data to provide insights and recommendations for policymakers and policy implementers around the world. The second is “work and the future of work,” which focuses on high-quality research and consultancy with policymakers, business, and employee groups mainly at the local, regional, and national level, utilizing cross-disciplinary teams of academics. 5.	The school is in a faith-based comprehensive private university with a liberal arts core and emphasizes developing principled business leaders (Americas) The school’s areas of thought leadership are “sustainable communities” and “addressing social inequities.” There are many projects, initiatives, and funded research opportunities that the school uses to make a difference in these areas. 6.	A medium-sized business school in a comprehensive public university with undergraduate and postgraduate offerings (Americas) The school’s thought leadership expertise, “innovation and entrepreneurship,” aligns with the bent of the university as a whole. The focus is on creation and development of sustainable social and commercial small ventures and the associated pedagogy. “Predatory” Journals Journals in which publication prioritizes self-interest above quality scholarship practices and/or aim to mislead and provide false information are often referred to as “predatory journals” due to their perceived exploitative nature. Online resources are available to assist schools in identifying potential predatory journals. AACSB does not endorse or validate any such journal list. It is the school’s responsibility to identify journals that may be considered exploitative or predatory in nature, and to have processes in place to safeguard against publication in such journals. Future Direction The school evaluates the overall success of its scholarship. This may require the school to develop policies, practices, and/or guidance for faculty that target outlets aligned with the school’s strategies for intellectual contributions and encourage high quality. Not Intended by the Standard It is noteworthy that in the standard AACSB does not specify: •	A prescribed distribution of intellectual contributions across the categories. This is not the case, as the actual distribution will depend on the mission of the school. •	A prescribed percentage of intellectual contributions in peer-reviewed journals either by individual or by discipline. This is not the case. The types of intellectual contributions and the percentage that are in peer-reviewed journals are decided by the school based on its mission, strategies and expected outcomes, and overall academic portfolio. •	A required set of measures of quality or impact of intellectual contributions. This is not the case. A range of measures exist for both quality and impact, and schools identify the ones that are appropriate for them based on their mission. III.	Sample Table (Part A Only) Aggregate and summarize data by discipline. Do not list by individual faculty member. Portfolio of Intellectual Contributions Types of Intellectual Contributions	% of Faculty Producing Intellectual Contributions Basic or Discovery Scholarship Applied or Integration/Application Scholarship Teaching and Learning Scholarship Peer-reviewed Journal Articles Additional Peer- or Editorial-Reviewed Intellectual Contributions All Other Intellectual Contributions Percent of Participating Faculty Producing ICs Percentage of Total Full Time Equivalent (FTE) Faculty Producing ICs Accounting	116	88.5	90	294.5	90	62.5	142	294.5	95	91 Finance	174	72.5	19	265.5	61	43.5	161	265.5	99	80 Marketing	300	287	68	655	59	41	555	655	100	98 Total	590	448	177	1215	210	147	858	1215	96.8	90.2 Standard 9: Engagement and Societal Impact Business schools and business are a force for good in society. Through their activities, schools have the opportunity to make a difference to society and to address significant issues at a local, national, or international scale. This standard builds on Standard 8, where the impact on society made by business schools’ intellectual contributions and thought leadership is covered, by requiring schools to outline the societal impact that their other school activities is having, and their aspirations and plans in this area for the future. As in Standard 8, it is recognized that because schools have different missions and contexts, their aspirations in the area of societal impact and their progress to date will differ enormously. This variance is considered for this standard, as the school analyzes and evaluates how it is progressing against its aspiration through internal and external activities and initiatives, as well as describes its plans for the next five years. For this reason, AACSB does not prescribe normative benchmarks for societal impact but allows the school to develop aspirational metrics in areas consistent with Standard 1. Emphasis The emphasis in this standard is on engagement by schools with external stakeholders that lead to societal impact. This engagement does not include intellectual contributions, as that is covered in Standard 8. Scale Business schools operate in different contexts and at different scales. Taking this into account, societal impact can be achieved at a local, regional, national, or international scale. Impacts at each of these scales is recognized by AACSB as having value. Coverage It is necessary to determine what kinds of activities would be included in this standard and what would not—in other words what is “in scope.” The underlying principle is that if the activity is facilitated or sponsored by the business school, rather than the broader university, the activity is one that can be considered in scope for the school. Thus, what is in scope would cover a wide range of activities and initiatives by the school, separated into internal and external. Internal activities are inside the school. Examples include operational aspects that have a societal impact, such as having green certified buildings, setting high standards for energy efficiency in buildings, reducing face-to-face meetings in multi-campus universities, using solar panels for energy, or providing financial assistance for learners who are facing financial hardships, etc. Business schools undertake a wide range of activities that engage and connect with external stakeholders. These include learner projects with business, nonprofit, and government organizations; service-learning requirements for learners that incorporate external stakeholders; student clubs in the business school that undertake social or environmental service roles; experiential learning opportunities for learners that involve engaging with external stakeholders; the establishment of small business development and advice centers in schools; business consortiums brought together by the school to work on real-world issues; the delivery of executive education programs, etc. All of these instances, and others, have the potential to have societal impact. It is possible that some service-learning or experiential learning activities may be relevant to both Standard 4 on curriculum and this standard. The difference is that the curriculum element is captured in Standard 4, while the impact of the activity is captured in this standard. Exemplars of Engagement with External Stakeholders The school should provide exemplars linking an internal or external activity to a societal impact. This involves identifying the activity, the extent to which the activity was promoted or supported by the school, faculty involvement (if any) with the activity, the number of learners involved, and the impact the activity had or continues to have on society. Possible societal impacts include but are not limited to the following: •	Contributions to major world issues, such as those identified by the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals (“SDGs”) •	Provide access to high-quality education leading to graduates who positively contribute to the economic vitality of society •	Contributing to business creation •	Effect on human rights •	Examples of impacting community outcomes •	Examples of changes to business practice arising from engagement •	Examples of where business performance has been improved as a result of engagement with the school •	Outline of positive effects on identified societal issues arising from the school’s research contributions, for example, on the social, economic, or physical environment •	Impact of the school on the local, regional or national economy Examples of School Activities That Have Societal Impact Some examples of business school activities having societal impact are below. These examples are not intended to be the “correct” ones. Rather, they illustrate the societal impact activities of some schools in different regions of the world. Additionally, the examples below provide an overview only. Fuller details will be provided by schools. 1.	Societal Impact: Climate Change (EMEA) Face-to-face executive committee meetings between heads of departments on different campuses have been cut from 11 to four per year, with conference calls reducing travel costs by up to 40 percent. 2.	Societal Impact: Affordable and Clean Energy (Americas) The school’s newest building is LEED gold certified by the U.S. Green Building Council and partly powered by solar panels. 3.	Societal Impact: Business Innovation and Employment (AP) The school provides executive education and short courses for local startups and small businesses to innovate and improve the sustainability of their businesses. 4.	Societal Impact: Well-Being and Social Inclusion (AP) The school provides community-wide training to improve financial literacy, adoption of technology, and access to banking and credit for low-income families. 5.	Societal Impact: Reduce Inequality (Americas) Significant hardship grants and scholarships are made available to students from high deprivation index backgrounds. 6.	Societal Impact: Life Cycle of Water (EMEA) Students in the Sustainability and Social Innovation master’s degree were involved in a wide range of projects that, through partnerships with external stakeholders, have had a societal impact. Notable here was a plastics-free project. Although the examples above are in a narrative format, schools are welcome to provide quantitative measures of their societal impact if they have measured it that way. Progress Over Time It is expected that over time the degree of impact by the school will increase; a wider range of the school’s activities will have an impact; the impact will come from a range of departments, centers, programs, and disciplines; and a growing proportion of learners will be involved in initiatives and activities that have a societal impact. Thus, in the report the school is required to address these points and in subsequent reports demonstrate how advances are being made. Further, the school should explicitly identify how it measures, or intends to measure, its progress toward achieving its aspiration for societal impact. This will make it possible for the peer review teams to assess performance, provide feedback, and track progress over time. For additional information on societal impact expectations in the accreditation standards, review the AACSB and Societal Impact white paper here. Table 9-1 is optional for all schools, including those pursuing initial accreditation and schools in the continuous improvement review (CIR) process. Table 9-1 is intended to capture a school’s societal impact activities related to its chosen focus area(s), including those pertaining to Standards 1,4,8, and 9. A narrative format may be used instead of the table if a school so desires. Whether presented in this table or a narrative format, the focus should be on the outcomes/impact of the school’s activities; it should not simply be a list of activities with no associated outcomes. Schools may complete Table 9-1 using the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) nomenclature as a convenient categorization tool, or the school may use a label of their choice. The following example is for illustrative purposes only. Example Table 9-1 Outcomes of Societal Impact Activities and Initiatives Across all Areas of the Standards For the Period Ended [Insert End of Self Study Year] Focus Area(s) Chosen by the School	Societal Impact Strategy (Standard 1)	Outcomes Related to Curriculum (Standard 4)	Outcomes Related to Scholarship (Standard 8)	Outcomes Related to Internal and External Initiatives and/or Activities (Standard 9) Good Health and Well-Being	Good health and well-being have been included in our school’s strategic plan, including its mission, vision, and values.	A new course was developed two years ago that focuses on mindfulness. More than 500 business students have taken this course and were surveyed over three years to determine if the results were sustaining. Ninety percent of students reported on this anonymous survey concurrent with graduation that they felt their lives had been positively impacted through the techniques they learned in this class.	In the past three years, 10 faculty have presented at open forums, regional conferences, and one national conference as a keynote speaker. We’ve received several follow-up invitations as a result, showing our growing influence in this space. Faculty co-authored two peer-reviewed cases and one peer- reviewed journal article on mindfulness in the classroom. While it is too early for citation counts, these three articles have been downloaded a total of 39 times.	A mindfulness student organization has blossomed far beyond the business school and has now been extended to six other colleges within the university, impacting 1,200 students university-wide. Students have been invited to travel to three other universities to share their efforts, and organizers of a regional student conference on this topic invited our students to share. Evidence is that the idea is catching on at other universities. XYZ Business School is excited to share that our work in good health and well-being is starting to bear fruit. Here is a summary of how our work has impacted the health and well-being of students and the local and regional community, and how our influence as experts in mindfulness has begun to grow. Impact on Health and Well-Being of Students Our students have consistently reported that their lives have been positively impacted through the mindfulness and meditation courses that have been implemented and which all business students  take at the beginning of their educational journey. Ninety percent of our students report that within three years of their training, they are still using the techniques they learned in this program. The results appear to persist post-graduation, with 90 percent of those graduates reporting they continue to rely on these techniques. We estimate we have impacted 4,200 students through our efforts so far with our curriculum initiatives towards our goal of impacting 10,000 students over ten years. Impact of Scholarship on Mindfulness We can see that faculty are also making a positive impact in this space. They are sought-after speakers inside and outside the university. One faculty member has been featured on the cover of Mindfulness magazine, which has a circulation of 15,000 readers. In scholarship, faculty are publishing peer-reviewed journal articles and cases. We estimate we have reached an audience of some 10,000 attendees of our faculty speaking engagements. The scholarship that has been published is in well-recognized and respected journals. The two peer-reviewed cases are being used in 25 universities by some 1,250 students. Collectively we estimate our scholarship has reached a total of 26,250 individuals so far towards our goal of impacting 100,000 individuals through our scholarship. Impact of Engagement Activities and Partnerships Four graduates have even been successfully leading mindfulness trainings for local NGOs, and six have started student organizations to promote mindfulness in their post-graduate schools. Our students and faculty have been interviewed in numerous media outlets, and word is spreading about the impact mindfulness is having on both students’ and faculty’s ability to deal effectively with stress inside and outside the classroom. Other colleges at the university have become interested in this work, and it has now been extended to six other schools within the university. There is evidence that these schools are also working with partner schools to teach them these techniques. A new Centre for Mindfulness has been created in partnership with an NGO in India focused on health and well- being of the Indian population. This Centre, created within the business school, trains corporate managers from all over India in how to manage everyday stress, and we are excited about the future of that Centre, which has attracted a grant of 8.2 crore INR (~1 million USD). This is the first partnership towards our goal of five external partnerships that collectively work to grow our influence in mindfulness techniques to improve mental well-being. Future Plans Our future plans include continuing in this same focus area and increasing our influence. We plan to leverage the success and resources of the Centre for Mindfulness to advance scholarship in this domain. We are working closely with the university startup incubator and initiating a project focused on the mindfulness of business founders. We will also continue to seek partnerships outside our university to extend our influence outside academia. Our future efforts will focus more heavily on joint initiatives and partnerships to begin to amplify our impact, as well as on interdisciplinary work. It is exciting to see that when we come together around an area that we are collectively passionate about, we can effect change at the local level and grow our influence in the region and country. APPENDIX A How to Determine Disciplines for Table 3-1 Standard 3 expects schools to present Table 3-1 by discipline. The guidance associated with the standard explains that disciplines are to be defined by the school in the context of their mission. Furthermore, the disciplines will normally align with the degree programs and/or majors offered by the school. In order to provide further guidance on how a school may approach defining their disciplines, an example is provided below. Example 1 University A offers the following degree programs in business: •	BS in Accounting •	BS in Management •	BS in Marketing •	BS in Finance •	BS in Entrepreneurship •	BS in Human Resource Management •	Master’s in Data Analytics •	MBA, concentrations in accounting, finance, marketing, and data analytics Based on the programs, majors and concentrations at the school, the school originally identified the following five disciplines: •	Accounting •	Management •	Marketing •	Finance •	Data Analytics The table below reflects the faculty members at the school and the discipline in which they will appear in Table 3-1. Name	Department in Which This Individual Is Housed	Degree Program in Which This Individual Teaches	Course(s) Taught	Discipline in Which This Faculty Member Would Appear Doe, Jane	Accounting	BS Accounting	Principles of Accounting	Accounting Frank, Tom	Accounting	BS Accounting	Forensic Accounting	Accounting (part time) Smith, Robert	Accounting	BS Accounting	Intermediate Accounting	Accounting Xi, Jason	Accounting	MBA (accounting)	Accounting for Managers	Accounting Dong, Bei	Accounting	MBA (accounting)	Financial Statement Analysis	Accounting (part time) Scott, Christine	Finance	BS in Finance	Corporate Finance	Finance Rogers, Daniel	Finance	A required course for all business majors	Business law	Business law Kline, Phillip	Finance	BS in Finance	Mergers & Acquisitions	Finance Manuel, Lin	Finance	A required course for all business majors, and MBA (finance)	Economics Financial economics	Economics Finance (Financial economics could logically be in either finance or economics; however, we’ve put him in finance because he is supporting the finance concentration within the MBA program. Had he been supporting, say, an economics concentration within the MBA program, we would have put him in Economics.) (This faculty member appears in two disciplines) Lee, Brian	Marketing & Management	BS in Marketing	Principles of Marketing	Marketing Johnson, Sandy	Marketing & Management	BS in Management	Human Resource Management	Management Robinson, Justine	Marketing & Management	BS in Marketing	Logistics and Supply Chain	Marketing or Logistics and Supply Chain (this one can go multiple ways – school choice); we’ve chosen Marketing, but Logistics and Supply Chain would be fine too. (part time) Jones, Lucas	Marketing &	MBA (marketing)	Social media	Marketing Management	and BS in Management	and Strategic Management Management Smith, Judy	Marketing & Management	BS in Management and MBA (core course in management, required course for all MBA learners)	Operations Management Strategic management	Management and Management (just show once in Table 3-1) Perry, James	Marketing & Management	BS in Entrepreneurship	Start-up Strategy	Management Zhang, Yu	Marketing & Management	BS in Entrepreneurship	Global Social Entrepreneurship	Management Adams, Cindy	Marketing & Management	BS in Human Resources	Employment and Labor Relations	Management Bjorn, Robert	Marketing & Management	BS in Human Resources	Compensation, benefits, and Retirement Planning	Management Chen, Li	Decision Sciences	MS in Data Analytics	Data visualization	Data Analytics Mayo, Josh	Decision Sciences	MS in Data Analytics and MBA (data analytics)	Python	Data Analytics Data Analytics (just show once in Table 3-1) Zhao, Xuan	Decision	A required	Statistics for	Statistics (This course is Sciences	course for all business majors	Business Majors	taught within the business school by our faculty; had this course been taught in the Math department by non-business school faculty, it would have been omitted from the table) Murthy, Anol	Decision Sciences	BS in data analytics	Database Management	Data Analytics Based on the degrees offered and courses taught, School A has settled on the following seven disciplines for the organization of Table 3-1 (note that department is irrelevant for this determination): •	Economics •	Business Law •	Statistics The faculty qualifications portion of School A’s Table 3-1 is shown below. Discipline: Accounting	Degrees or majors are offered in this discipline ☒ Names	SA	PA	SP	IP	A Doe, Jane	100 Frank, Tom		50 Smith, Robert	100 Xi, Jason	100 Dong, Bei				50 Totals	300	50	0	50	0 Ratios: SA% = 300/400=75% SA+PA+SP+IP%= 400/400=100% In Alignment with Standard 3? Yes X 	 No Discipline: Finance	Degrees or majors are offered in this discipline ☒ Scott, Christine	100 Kline, Phillip			100 Manuel, Lin				50 Totals	100	0	100	50	0 SA% = 100/250=40% SA+PA+SP+IP%= _250/250=100% In Alignment with Standard 3? Yes_X 	 No Discipline: Management	Degrees or majors are offered in this discipline ☒ Johnson, Sandy	100 Jones, Lucas	50 Smith, Judy					100 Perry, James				100 Zhang, Yu				100 Adams, Cindy		100 Bjorn, Robert					100 Totals	150	100	0	200	200 SA% = _150/650=23% _450/650=69% In Alignment with Standard 3? Yes 	 No   X Discipline: Marketing	Degrees or majors are offered in this discipline ☒ Lee, Brian		100 Robinson, Justine			50 Totals	50	100	50	0	0 SA% = _50/200=25% 	 SA+PA+SP+IP%= _200/200=100% In Alignment with Standard 3? Yes 	 No   x Discipline: Data Analytics	Degrees or majors are offered in this discipline ☒ Chen, Li	100 Mayo, Josh				100 Murthy, Anol				100 Totals	100	0	0	200	0 SA% = _100/300=33% 300/300=100% Discipline: Economics	Degrees or majors are offered in this discipline ☐ Degrees or majors are not offered in this discipline ☒ Totals	0	0	0	50	0 SA% = 0% SA+PA+SP+IP%= 50/50=100% Discipline: Business Law	Degrees or majors are offered in this discipline ☐ Rogers, Daniel		100 Totals	0	100	0	0	0 100/100=100% Discipline: Statistics	Degrees or majors are offered in this discipline ☐ Zhao, Xuan					100 Totals	0	0	0	0	100 SA+PA+SP+IP%= 0/100=0% Overall Ratios: Calculation of Global Totals	SA	PA	SP	IP	A Totals across the entire accredited unit	700	350	150	550	300 SA% = _700/2050=34.1% SA+PA+SP+IP%= _1750/2050= 85.4% In Alignment with Standard 3? Yes 	 No_X Additional notes: •	The decision of whether they are in alignment within a discipline is ultimately up to a peer review team. There is wording in the standards that would allow a school to make its case that they have innovative programs, or have exceptional outcomes (placement, other metrics of success, assurance of learning outcomes, indirect measures). •	Overall ratios are calculated across the accredited unit (including disciplines where degrees/majors are not offered). •	SA ratios do not have to be met in disciplines where no degrees/majors are offered, but the 90% ratio does still have to be met within each discipline to be in alignment (absent exceptional outcomes or innovative programs). •	Note that the BS in Entrepreneurship and BS in Human Resource Management are considered by the school to be part of the discipline of Management. Example 2 University B offers a single MBA degree without any concentrations or tracks. The school has faculty in the following disciplines that support the MBA curriculum, which is how they structure Table 3-1: •	Information Systems Name	Department in Which This Individual Is Housed	Degree Program in Which This Individual Teaches	Course Taught	Discipline in Which This Faculty Member Would Appear Belrose, Gianna	Accounting & Finance	MBA	Financial Statement Analysis	Accounting Frank, Alan	Accounting & Finance	MBA	Financial Statement Analysis Financial Accounting	Accounting Stirling, Noe	Accounting & Finance	MBA	Financial Accounting Managerial Accounting	Accounting Hudgens, Gene	Economics	MBA	Economic Concepts for Managers	Economics Martens, Peggy	Economics	MBA	Economic Concepts for Managers	Economics Clark, Michael	Accounting & Finance	MBA	Corporate Finance Financial Policy	Finance Jansson, Konstantin	Accounting & Finance	MBA	International Financial Management Advanced Money and Capital Markets	Finance Paredes, Jason	Accounting & Finance	MBA	Real Estate Decisions	Finance Schumer, Rebecca	Accounting & Finance	MBA	Financial Options and Futures Financial Modeling	Finance Lam, Yun	Information Systems	MBA	Systems Analysis and Design	Information Systems Spears, Paul	Information Systems	MBA	Data Analytics for Business	Information Systems Van Laren, Nila	Information	MBA	Data Analytics	Information Systems Systems		for Business Asad, Mohammad	Management	MBA	Managing International Cultural Differences	Management Berry, Debra	Management	MBA	Social, Ethical, and Legal Systems	Management Hu, Hong	Management	MBA	Organizational Behavior Decision Making and Problem Solving	Management Takeuchi, Yohan	Management	MBA	Project Management	Management Adebayo, Ovidia	Marketing	MBA	Marketing Management Brand Management	Marketing Krummer, George	Marketing	MBA	Research for Marketing Managers	Marketing Lowell, Jayden	Marketing	MBA	Marketing Strategy Supply Chain Management	Marketing The faculty qualifications portion of School B’s Table 3-1 is shown below. Discipline: Accounting	Degrees or majors are offered in this discipline ☐ Belrose, Gianna	100 Frank, Alan				50 Stirling, Noe		100 Totals	100	100	0	50	0 SA% = 100/250=40% SA+PA+SP+IP%= 250/250=100% Hudgens, Gene					50 Martens, Peggy				50 Totals	0	0	0	50	50 SA% = 0/100=0% SA+PA+SP+IP%= _50/100=50% Discipline: Finance	Degrees or majors are offered in this discipline ☐ Clark, Michael	100 Jansson, Konstantin	100 Paredes, Jason				50 Schumer, Rebecca		100 Totals	200	100	0	50	0 SA% = _200/350=57% _350/350=100% Discipline: Information Systems	Degrees or majors are offered in this discipline ☐ Lam, Yun	100 Spears, Paul			50 Van Laren, Nila				100 Totals	100	0	50	100	0 SA% = _100/250=40% 	 SA+PA+SP+IP%= _250/250=100% Discipline: Management	Degrees or majors are offered in this discipline ☐ Asad, Mohammad		100 Berry, Debra				50 Hu, Hong	100 Takeuchi, Yohan				50 Totals	100	100	0	100	0 Discipline: Marketing	Degrees or majors are offered in this discipline ☐ Adebayo, Ovidia	100 Krummer, George	100 Lowell, Jayden			100 Totals	200	0	100	0	0 SA% = 200/300=67% SA+PA+SP+IP%= 300/300=100% Totals across the entire accredited unit	700	300	150	350	50 SA% = _700/1550=45% SA+PA+SP+IP%= _1500/1550= 96.8% June 30, 2023 Business Accreditation Standards and Interpretive Guidance Technical Edits Summary of Notable Changes (specific changes are bolded and italicized) 2020 Standard	Where	Summary of Change(s) Made 3-Faculty and Professional Staff Resources	Interpretive Guidance document	•	Added the following clarification with respect to the discipline reporting structure of the tables: “Additionally, if the school offers an interdisciplinary business degree it may combine the disciplines in which the degree is offered in their reports assuming individual degree programs in these areas are not offered.” 4-Curriculum	Interpretive Guidance document	•	“Removed reference to unconscious bias in the following example: “With respect to pedagogy, innovation can be expressed and documented where faculty are experimenting with different approaches to teaching. Examples would be initiatives to overcome unconscioUs bias promote inclusive pedagogy and approaches that recognize different learner styles and paces of learning.” 5 -Assurance of Learning	Standards document	5.1 Basis for Judgment •	Strengthened language around the re- quirement for schools to include some indirect measures in their assurance of learning system as words like “should” and “normally” were leading to confusion among the membership regarding wheth- er indirect measures are required, which they are. 5 -Assurance of Learning	Interpretive Guidance document	•	Strengthened language around the requirement for schools to include some indirect measures in their assurance of learning system to align with the updates to the standards document referenced in the row above. 7-Teaching Effectiveness and Impact	Standards document	7.1 Basis for Judgment •	Minor edits to wording as some schools interpreted existing language to mean that having multiple student evaluations would be enough and the intent was to have different methods. “The school has a systematic process for evaluating teaching effectiveness as an integral component of the faculty and professional staff performance review process. This process should include a mUlti-measUre evalUation mUltiple methods of evalUating teaching as well as expectations for continuous improvement. The school’s methods and practices related to teaching effectiveness should be clearly linked to the school’s mission, strategies, and expected outcomes.” 8- Impact of Scholarship	Interpretive Guidance document	•	Removed the following paragraph because it conflicts with the definition of an intellectual contribution provided in the beginning of Standard 8. “The intention is that, while the school is required to present data based on aggregating intellectual contributions of individual faculty in Table 8-1 (A), it has the flexibility to present further information on its intellectual contributions in the manner that best suits the school and provides the most clarity for a peer review team, accreditation committee, or other AACSB volunteers involved in accreditation review. As an example, schools can provide details on intellectual contributions supplied by units within the school or by the school itself. There may be a situation where a department in the school runs regional, national, or international academic conferences or industry/academic colloquiums. The school may produce a peer-reviewed academic journal or have a case study clearinghouse. These represent intellectual contributions and can be outlined in a table or narrative format.” •	The above example of a school’s academic conference, colloquium or in-house journal being an intellectual contribution is not congruent with the definition of an intellectual contribution provided on page 57 of the standards. •	Added similar language to the Thought Leadership section of the Interpretive Guidance: “ThoUght leadership can be the resUlt of a Unit’s collective effort. For example, a department in the school may run regional, national, or international academic conferences or indUstry/academic colloqUiUms. The school may prodUce a peer-reviewed academic joUrnal or have a case stUdy clearinghoUse.” 9 – Engagement and Societal Impact	Standards document	•	Modified the Table 9-1 template to align more closely with AACSB’s recently released white paper, AACSB and Societal Impact. 9 – Engagement and Societal Impact	Interpretive Guidance document	•	Adjusted the sample Table 9-1 to align with the updated template.